26371343 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4622408 [AVAILABLE ON 11/01/16]/pdf/ Generation of Self-Renewing Hepatoblasts From Human Embryonic Stem Cells by Chemical Approaches. Stem cells translational medicine [StringElement('Somatic stem cells play crucial roles in organogenesis and tissue homeostasis and regeneration and may ultimately prove useful for cell therapy for a variety of degenerative diseases and injuries; however, isolation and expansion of most types of somatic stem cells from tissues are technically challenging. Human pluripotent stem cells are a renewable source for any adult cell types, including somatic stem cells. Generation of somatic stem cells from human pluripotent stem cells is a promising strategy to get these therapeutically valuable cells. Previously, we developed a chemically defined condition for mouse hepatoblast self-renewal through a reiterative screening strategy. In the present study, we efficiently generated hepatoblasts from human embryonic stem cells by a stepwise induction strategy. Importantly, these human embryonic stem cell-derived hepatoblasts can be captured and stably maintained using conditions previously established for mouse hepatoblast self-renewal, which includes basal media supplemented with insulin, transferrin, sodium selenite, epidermal growth factor, glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibitor, transforming growth factor β receptor inhibitor, lysophosphatidic acid, and sphingosine 1-phosphate. The cells can stably retain hepatoblast phenotypes during prolonged culture and can differentiate into mature hepatocytes through in vitro provision of hepatocyte lineage developmental cues. After being embedded into three-dimensional Matrigel, these cells efficiently formed bile duct-like structures resembling native bile duct tissues. These human embryonic stem cell-derived hepatoblasts would be useful as a renewable source for cell therapy of liver diseases.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Somatic stem cells have been proposed as promising candidates for cell-based therapy; however, isolation of somatic stem cells from adult tissues is usually invasive and technically challenging. In the present study, hepatoblasts from human embryonic stem cells were efficiently generated. These human hepatoblasts were then stably captured and maintained by a growth factor and small molecule cocktail, which included epidermal growth factor, glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibitor, transforming growth factor β receptor inhibitor, lysophosphatidic acid, and sphingosine 1-phosphate. These human embryonic stem cell-derived hepatoblasts would be useful as a renewable source for cell therapy of liver diseases.', attributes={'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25820869 Currently the full-text not available CXCR4 positive cell-derived Pdx1-high/Shh-low cells originated from embryonic stem cells improve the repair of pancreatic injury in mice. Cell biology international ['Treatments for pancreatic injuries have been significantly improved recently, but full recovery of pancreatic function remains difficult. Embryonic stem cells have great potentialities for self-renewal and multiple differentiations. In this study, we explored an approach to induce the differentiation of pancreatic progenitor cells from embryonic stem cells in vitro. Male mouse embryonic stem cells were cultured by the hanging-drop method to form embryoid bodies. The definitive endoderm marked by CXCR4 in embryoid bodies was sorted by magnetic activated cell sorting and subsequently administrated with b-FGF, exendin-4, and cyclopamine to induce the differentiation of putative pancreatic progenitor cells, which was monitored by Pdx1, and Shh expressions. The putative pancreatic progenitor cells were transplanted into female BALB/c mice with pancreatitis induced by L-Arginine. Male donor cells were located by detecting sex-determining region of Y-chromosome DNA. Definitive endoderm cells (CXCR4(+) cells) were sorted from 5-day embryoid bodies. After 3-day administration with b-FGF, exendin-4, and cyclopamine, Pdx1-high/Shh-low cells were differentiated from CXCR4(+) cells. These cells developed into more amylase-secreted cells in vitro and could specifically reside in the damaged pancreas acinar area in mice with acute pancreatitis to enhance the regeneration. The putative pancreatic progenitor cells (Pdx1-high/Shh-low cells) derived from mouse embryonic stem cells through the administration of b-FGF, exendin-4, and cyclopamine on the CXCR4(+) cells in vitro could improve the regeneration of injured pancreatic acini in vivo.'] 
26940741 Currently the full-text not available High glucose suppresses embryonic stem cell differentiation into neural lineage cells. Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Abnormal neurogenesis occurs during embryonic development in human diabetic pregnancies and in animal models of diabetic embryopathy. Our previous studies in a mouse model of diabetic embryopathy have implicated that high glucose of maternal diabetes delays neurogenesis in the developing neuroepithelium leading to neural tube defects. However, the underlying process in high glucose-impaired neurogenesis is uncharacterized. Neurogenesis from embryonic stem (ES) cells provides a valuable model for understanding the abnormal neural lineage development under high glucose conditions. ES cells are commonly generated and maintained in high glucose (approximately 25\xa0mM glucose). Here, the mouse ES cell line, E14, was gradually adapted to and maintained in low glucose (5\xa0mM), and became a glucose responsive E14 (GR-E14) line. High glucose induced the endoplasmic reticulum stress marker, CHOP, in GR-E14\xa0cells. Under low glucose conditions, the GR-E14\xa0cells retained their pluripotency and capability to differentiate into neural lineage cells. GR-E14\xa0cell differentiation into neural stem cells (Sox1 and nestin positive cells) was inhibited by high glucose. Neuron (Tuj1 positive cells) and glia (GFAP positive cells) differentiation from GR-E14\xa0cells was also suppressed by high glucose. In addition, high glucose delayed GR-E14 differentiation into neural crest cells by decreasing neural crest markers, paired box 3 (Pax3) and paired box 7 (Pax7). Thus, high glucose impairs ES cell differentiation into neural lineage cells. The low glucose adapted and high glucose responsive GR-E14\xa0cell line is a useful in\xa0vitro model for assessing the adverse effect of high glucose on the development of the central nervous system.'] 
26184691 Currently the full-text not available Single Cell Analysis Reveals Concomitant Transcription of Pluripotent and Lineage Markers During the Early Steps of Differentiation of Embryonic Stem Cells. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['The differentiation of embryonic stem cells is associated with extensive changes in gene expression. It is not yet clear whether these changes are the result of binary switch-like mechanisms or that of continuous and progressive variation. Here, I have used immunostaining and single molecule RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to assess changes in the expression of the well-known pluripotency-associated gene Pou5f1 (also known as Oct4) and early differentiation markers Sox1 and T-brachyury in single cells during the early steps of differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells. I found extensive overlap between the expression of Pou5f1/Sox1 or Pou5f1/T-brachyury shortly after the initiation of differentiation towards either the neuronal or the mesendodermal lineage, but no evidence of correlation between their respective expression levels. Quantitative analysis of transcriptional output at the sites of nascent transcription revealed that Pou5f1 and Sox1 were transcribed in pulses and that embryonic stem cell differentiation was accompanied by changes in pulsing frequencies. The progressive induction of Sox1 was further associated with an increase in the average size of individual transcriptional bursts. Surprisingly, single cells that actively and simultaneously transcribe both the pluripotency- and the lineage-associated genes could easily be found in the differentiating population. The results presented here show for the first time that lineage priming can occur in cells that are actively transcribing a pluripotent marker. Furthermore, they suggest that this process is associated with changes in transcriptional dynamics.'] 
24239964 Currently the full-text not available Efficient definitive endoderm induction from mouse embryonic stem cell adherent cultures: a rapid screening model for differentiation studies. Stem cell research ['Definitive endoderm (DE) differentiation from mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) monolayer cultures has been limited by poor cell survival or low efficiency. Recently, a combination of TGFβ and Wnt activation with BMP inhibition improved DE induction in embryoid bodies cultured in suspension. Based on these observations we developed a protocol to efficiently induce DE cells in monolayer cultures of mESCs. We obtained a good cell yield with 54.92% DE induction as shown by Foxa2, Sox17, Cxcr4 and E-Cadherin expression. These DE-cells could be further differentiated into posterior foregut and pancreatic phenotypes using a culture protocol initially developed for human embryonic stem cell (hESC) differentiation. In addition, this mESC-derived DE gave rise to hepatocyte-like cells after exposure to BMP and FGF ligands. Our data therefore indicate a substantial improvement of monolayer DE induction from mESCs and support the concept that differentiation conditions for mESC-derived DE are similar to those for hESCs. As mESCs are easier to maintain and manipulate in culture compared to hESCs, and considering the shorter duration of embryonic development in the mouse, this method of efficient DE induction on monolayer will promote the development of new differentiation protocols to obtain DE-derivatives, like pancreatic beta-cells, for future use in cell replacement therapies.'] 
26445831 Currently the full-text not available Derivation and Chondrogenic Commitment of Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Mesenchymal Progenitors. Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.) ['The induction of human embryonic stem cells to a mesenchymal-like progenitor population constitutes a developmentally relevant approach for efficient directed differentiation of human embryonic stem (hES) cells to the chondrogenic lineage. The initial enrichment of a hemangioblast intermediate has been shown to yield a replenishable population of highly purified progenitor cells that exhibit the typical mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) surface markers as well as the capacity for multilineage differentiation to bone, fat, and cartilage. Herein, we provide detailed methodologies for the derivation and characterization of potent mesenchymal-like progenitors from hES cells and describe in vitro assays for bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2-mediated differentiation to the chondrogenic lineage.'] 
24845830 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4028244/pdf/ The epigenetic bivalency of core pancreatic β-cell transcription factor genes within mouse pluripotent embryonic stem cells is not affected by knockdown of the polycomb repressive complex 2, SUZ12. PloS one ['This study assesses changes in activator and repressor modifications to histones associated with the core transcription factor genes most highly upregulated or downregulated in pancreatic β-cells relative to expression in an embryonic stem cell line. Epigenetic analysis of the Oct4, Utf1, Nanog and Sox2 (pluripotency) and Pdx1, Nkx6.1, Nkx2.2 and MafA (pancreatic β-cells) transcription factor genes in embryonic stem cells and a β-cell line (MIN6) showed the pluripotency genes were enriched for active (histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 4 and histone 3 acetylated at lysine 9) and depleted of repressor modifications (histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 27 and histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 9) around the transcription start site in mouse embryonic stem cells (D3), and this was reversed in MIN6 cells. The β-cell transcription factors were bivalently enriched for activating (histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 4) and repressor (histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 27) modifications in embryonic stem cells but were monovalent for the activator modification (histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 4) in the β-cells. The polycomb repressor complex 2 acts as a histone 3 lysine 27 methylase and an essential component of this complex, SUZ12, was enriched at the β-cell transcription factors in embryonic stem cells and was reduced MIN6. Knock-down of SUZ12 in embryonic stem cells, however, did not reduce the level of histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 27 at β-cell transcription factor loci or break the transcriptional repression of these genes in embryonic stem cells. This study shows the reduction in the total SUZ12 level was not a sufficient cause of the resolution of the epigenetic bivalency of β-cell transcription factors in embryonic stem cells.'] 
24616439 Currently the full-text not available Antibody approaches to prepare clinically transplantable cells from human embryonic stem cells: identification of human embryonic stem cell surface markers by monoclonal antibodies. Biotechnology journal ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are unique cell populations, possessing both unlimited self-renewal capacity and pluripotency, i.e. the potential to give rise to all kinds of specialized cells in the human body. Marker molecules expressed on the surface of hESCs are important for the identification, characterization, and clinical application of hESCs. Compared with conventional genomics- or proteomics-based approaches, generating monoclonal antibody (mAb) libraries against hESCs using alternative methodologies expands the repertoire of mAbs raised against non-protein markers, for example, glycolipid antigens. Additional information about the conformation and post-translational modification of surface molecules can also be obtained. In this article, we review how mAb libraries against hESC surface markers have been developed using whole-cell and decoy immunization strategies.'] 
25089837 Currently the full-text not available Dynamic changes in energy metabolism upon embryonic stem cell differentiation support developmental toxicant identification. Toxicology ['Embryonic stem cells (ESC) are widely used to study embryonic development and to identify developmental toxicants. Particularly, the embryonic stem cell test (EST) is well known as in vitro model to identify developmental toxicants. Although it is clear that energy metabolism plays a crucial role in embryonic development, the modulation of energy metabolism in in vitro models, such as the EST, is not yet described. The present study is among the first studies that analyses whole genome expression data to specifically characterize metabolic changes upon ESC early differentiation. Our transcriptomic analyses showed activation of glycolysis, truncated activation of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, activation of lipid synthesis, as well as activation of glutaminolysis during the early phase of ESC differentiation. Taken together, this energy metabolism profile points towards energy metabolism reprogramming in the provision of metabolites for biosynthesis of cellular constituents. Next, we defined a gene set that describes this energy metabolism profile. We showed that this gene set could be successfully applied in the EST to identify developmental toxicants known to modulate cellular biosynthesis (5-fluorouracil and methoxyacetic acid), while other developmental toxicants or the negative control did not modulate the expression of this gene set. Our description of dynamic changes in energy metabolism during early ESC differentiation, as well as specific identification of developmental toxicants modulating energy metabolism, is an important step forward in the definition of the applicability domain of the EST.'] 
26006729 Currently the full-text not available Thalidomide induced early gene expression perturbations indicative of human embryopathy in mouse embryonic stem cells. Toxicology and applied pharmacology ['Developmental toxicity testing has traditionally relied on animal models which are costly, time consuming, and require the sacrifice of large numbers of animals. In addition, there are significant disparities between human beings and animals in their responses to chemicals. Thalidomide is a species-specific developmental toxicant that causes severe limb malformations in humans but not in mice. Here, we used microarrays to study transcriptomic changes induced by thalidomide in an in vitro model based on differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). C57BL/6 mESCs were allowed to differentiate spontaneously and RNA was collected at 24, 48, and 72h after exposure to 0.25mM thalidomide. Global gene expression analysis using microarrays revealed hundreds of differentially expressed genes upon thalidomide exposure that were enriched in gene ontology (GO) terms and canonical pathways associated with embryonic development and differentiation. In addition, many genes were found to be involved in small GTPases-mediated signal transduction, heart development, and inflammatory responses, which coincide with clinical evidences and may represent critical embryotoxicities of thalidomide. These results demonstrate that transcriptomics in combination with mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation is a promising alternative model for developmental toxicity assessment.'] 
23753573 Currently the full-text not available Embryonic stem cell-derived CD166+ precursors develop into fully functional sinoatrial-like cells. Circulation research [StringElement('A cell-based biological pacemaker is based on the differentiation of stem cells and the selection of a population displaying the molecular and functional properties of native sinoatrial node (SAN) cardiomyocytes. So far, such selection has been hampered by the lack of proper markers. CD166 is specifically but transiently expressed in the mouse heart tube and sinus venosus, the prospective SAN.', attributes={'Label': 'RATIONALE', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We have explored the possibility of using CD166 expression for isolating SAN progenitors from differentiating embryonic stem cells.', attributes={'Label': 'OBJECTIVE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('We found that in embryonic day 10.5 mouse hearts, CD166 and HCN4, markers of the pacemaker tissue, are coexpressed. Sorting embryonic stem cells for CD166 expression at differentiation day 8 selects a population of pacemaker precursors. CD166+ cells express high levels of genes involved in SAN development (Tbx18, Tbx3, Isl-1, Shox2) and function (Cx30.2, HCN4, HCN1, CaV1.3) and low levels of ventricular genes (Cx43, Kv4.2, HCN2, Nkx2.5). In culture, CD166+ cells form an autorhythmic syncytium composed of cells morphologically similar to and with the electrophysiological properties of murine SAN myocytes. Isoproterenol increases (+57%) and acetylcholine decreases (-23%) the beating rate of CD166-selected cells, which express the β-adrenergic and muscarinic receptors. In cocultures, CD166-selected cells are able to pace neonatal ventricular myocytes at a rate faster than their own. Furthermore, CD166+ cells have lost pluripotency genes and do not form teratomas in vivo.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We demonstrated for the first time the isolation of a nonteratogenic population of cardiac precursors able to mature and form a fully functional SAN-like tissue.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25267362 Currently the full-text not available Mouse embryonic stem cell-derived cells reveal niches that support neuronal differentiation in the adult rat brain. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['A neurogenic niche can be identified by the proliferation and differentiation of its naturally residing neural stem cells. However, it remains unclear whether "silent" neurogenic niches or regions suitable for neural differentiation, other than the areas of active neurogenesis, exist in the adult brain. Embryoid body (EB) cells derived from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are endowed with a high potential to respond to specification and neuralization signals of the embryo. Hence, to identify microenvironments in the postnatal and adult rat brain with the capacity to support neuronal differentiation, we transplanted dissociated EB cells to conventional neurogenic and non-neurogenic regions. Our results show a neuronal differentiation pattern of EB cells that was dependent on the host region. Efficient neuronal differentiation of EB cells occurred within an adjacent region to the rostral migratory stream. EB cell differentiation was initially patchy and progressed toward an even distribution along the graft by 15-21 days post-transplantation, giving rise mostly to GABAergic neurons. EB cells in the striatum displayed a lower level of neuronal differentiation and derived into a significant number of astrocytes. Remarkably, when EB cells were transplanted to the striatum of adult rats after a local ischemic stroke, increased number of neuroblasts and neurons were observed. Unexpectedly, we determined that the adult substantia nigra pars compacta, considered a non-neurogenic area, harbors a robust neurogenic environment. Therefore, neurally uncommitted cells derived from ESCs can detect regions that support neuronal differentiation within the adult brain, a fundamental step for the development of stem cell-based replacement therapies.'] 
24123724 Currently the full-text not available Expression of embryonic stem cell markers and osteogenic differentiation potential in cells derived from periodontal granulation tissue. Cell biology international ['The aim of this study was to identify if cells obtained from periodontal granulation tissue possess embryonic stem cell properties and osteogenic capacities in vitro. Periodontal granulation tissue was removed from one furcation and one infrabony defect (FGTC/IGTC-furcation/infrabony defect derived granulation tissue cells) of six patients. The extracted tissues were treated with collagenase/dispase solution, cultured and passaged twice, while a fraction of them was bacteriologically analyzed. Upon reaching confluence, total RNA was extracted, followed by cDNA synthesis and real-time PCR analysis. Gene expression levels of collagen type I, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and the embryonic stem cell markers Nanog, Oct-4, Rex-1 and Sox-2 were measured, calibrated against the housekeeping gene GAPDH. Further, osteogenic differentiation was induced. Mineralized matrix formation was confirmed by von Kossa staining, and ALP activity was measured colorimetrically. The total bacterial load amounted to 9.4 ± 14.6 × 10(6) counts/mg of tissue for IGTC, and 11.1 ± 6.1 × 10(6) \u2009counts/of tissue for FGTC. Among the embryonic stem cell markers (FGTC/IGTC), Nanog was most highly expressed (3.48 ± 1.2/5.85 ± 5.7), followed by Oct-4 (1.79 ± 0.69/2.85 ± 2.5), Sox-2 (0.66 ± 0.3/1.26 ± 1.4) and Rex-1 (0.06 ± 0.0/0.04 ± 0.0). The osteogenic differentiation process was positive in both FGTC and IGTC, judged by increased von Kossa staining, and elevated ALP activity and gene expression. This study provides evidence that infected periodontal granulation tissue harbors cells expressing embryonic stem cell markers, and exhibiting osteogenic capacities when in culture in vitro.'] 
25197338 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4152028/pdf/ Human amniotic fluid stem cells support undifferentiated propagation and pluripotency of human embryonic stem cell without b-FGF in a density dependent manner. International journal of clinical and experimental pathology ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are pluripotent cells which can give rise to almost all adult cell lineages. Culture system of hESCs is complex, requiring exogenous b-FGF and feeder cell layer. Human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) not only synthesize soluble cytokines or factors such as b-FGF, but also provide other mechanism which might play positive role on sustaining hESCs propagation and pluripotency. Human amniotic fluid stem (AFS) cells, which share characteristics of both embryonic and adult stem cells, have been regarded as promising cells for regenerative medicine. Taking advantage by AFS cells, we studied the ability of AFS cells in supporting undifferentiated propagation and pluripotency of Chinese population derived X-01 hESCs. Human AF-type amniotic fluid stem cells (hAF-AFSCs) transcribed genes including Activin A, TGF-β1, Noggin and b-FGF, which involved in maintaining pluripotency and self-renewal of hESCs. Compared to mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), hAF-AFSCs secreted higher concentration of b-FGF which was important in hESCs culture (P < 0.05). The hESCs were propagated more than 30 passages on hAF-AFSCs layer with exogenous b-FGF supplementation, keeping undifferentiated status. While exogenous b-FGF was obviated, propagation of hESCs with undifferentiated status was dependent on density of hAF-AFSC feeder layer. Lower density of hAF-AFSCs resulted in rapid decline in undifferentiated clone number, while higher ones hindered the growth of colonies. The most appropriate hAF-AFSCs feeder density to maintain the X-01 hESC line without exogenous b-FGF was 15-20×10(4)/well. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating that hAF-AFSCs could support undifferentiated propagation and pluripotency of Chinese population derived hESCs without exogenous b-FGF supplementation.'] 
27091127 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4835879/pdf/ Vitamin D3 stimulates embryonic stem cells but inhibits migration and growth of ovarian cancer and teratocarcinoma cell lines. Journal of ovarian research [StringElement('Deficiency in Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) may predispose to some malignancies, including gonadal tumors and in experimental models vitamin D3 has been proven to inhibit the growth of cancer cells. To learn more about the potential role of vitamin D3 in cancerogenesis, we evaluated the expression and functionality of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and its role in metastasis of ovarian cancer cells and of murine and human teratocarcinoma cell lines.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('In our studies we employed murine embrynic stem cells (ESD3), murine (P19) and human (NTERA-2) teratocarcimona cells lines, human ovarian cancer cells (A2780) as well as purified murine and human purified very small embryonic like stem cells (VSELs). We evaluated expression of Vitamin D3 receptor (VDR) in these cells as well as effect of vitamin D3 exposure on cell proliferation and migration.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('We here provide also more evidence for the role of vitamin D3 in germline-derived malignancies, and this evidence supports the proposal that vitamin D3 treatment inhibits growth and metastatic potential of several germline-derived malignancies. We also found that the ESD3 murine immortalized embryonic stem cell line and normal, pluripotent, germline-marker-positive very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) isolated from adult tissues are stimulated by vitamin D3, which suggests that vitamin D3 affects the earliest stages of embryogenesis.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We found that however all normal and malignant germ-line derived cells express functional VDR, Vitamin D3 differently affects their proliferation and migration. We postulate that while Vitamin D3 as anticancer drug inhibits proliferation of malignant cells, it may protect normal stem cells that play an important role in development and tissue/organ regeneration.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26102992 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4489430/pdf/ Enhanced therapeutic neovascularization by CD31-expressing cells and embryonic stem cell-derived endothelial cells engineered with chitosan hydrogel containing VEGF-releasing microtubes. Biomaterials ['Various stem cells and their progeny have been used therapeutically for vascular regeneration. One of the major hurdles for cell-based therapy is low cell retention in\xa0vivo, and to improve cell survival several biomaterials have been used to encapsulate cells before transplantation. Vascular regeneration involves new blood vessel formation which consists of two processes, vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. While embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived endothelial cells (ESC-ECs) have clearer vasculogenic potency, adult cells exert their effects mainly through paracrine angiogenic activities. While these two cells have seemingly complementary advantages, there have not been any studies to date combining these two cell types for vascular regeneration. We have developed a novel chitosan-based hydrogel construct that encapsulates both CD31-expressing BM-mononuclear cells (BM-CD31(+) cells) and ESC-ECs, and is loaded with VEGF-releasing microtubes. This cell construct showed high cell survival and minimal cytotoxicity in\xa0vitro. When implanted into a mouse model of hindlimb ischemia, it induced robust cell retention, neovascularization through vasculogenesis and angiogenesis, and efficiently induced recovery of blood flow in ischemic hindlimbs. This chitosan-based hydrogel encapsulating mixed adult and embryonic cell derivatives and containing VEGF can serve as a novel platform for treating various cardiovascular diseases.'] 
24605024 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3942830/pdf/ Embryonic stem cell factors and pancreatic cancer. World journal of gastroenterology ['Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common type of pancreatic tumor, is a highly aggressive human cancer with the lowest five-year survival rate of any human maligancy primarily due to its early- metastasis and lack of response to chemotherapy and radiation. Recent research suggests that PDAC cells comprise a hierarchy of tumor cells that develop around a population of cancer stem cells (CSCs), a small and distinct population of cancer cells that mediates tumoregenesis, metastasis and resistance to standard treatments. Thus, CSCs could be a target for more effective treatment options. Interestingly, pancreatic CSCs are subject to regulation by some of key embryonic stem cell (ESC) transctiption factors abberently expressed in PDAC, such as SOX2, OCT4 and NANOG. ESC transcription factors are important DNA-binding proteins present in both embryonic and adult somatic cells. The critical role of these factors in reprogramming processes makes them essential not only for embryonic development but also tumorigenesis. Here we provide an overview of stem cell transcription factors, particularly SOX2, OCT4, and NANOG, on their expression and function in pancreatic cancer. In contrast to embryonic stem cells, in which OCT4 and SOX2 are tightly regulated and physically interact to regulate a wide spectrum of target genes, de novo SOX2 expression alone in pancreatic cancer cells is sufficient to promote self-renewal, de-differentiation and imparting stemness characteristics via impacting specific cell cycle regulatory genes and epithelial-mesnechymal transtion driver genes. Thus, targeting ESC factors, particularly SOX2, could be a worthy strategy for pancreatic cancer therapy.'] 
26427460 Currently the full-text not available Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Microvesicles: Could They be Used for Retinal Regeneration? Advances in experimental medicine and biology ["Mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) release into the medium in which they are cultured heterogeneous populations of microvesicles (mESMVs), important components of cell-cell communication, that transfer their contents not only to other stem cells but also to cells of other origins. The purpose of these studies was to demonstrate that ESMVs could be the signals that lead the retinal progenitor Müller cells to de-differentiate and re-entry the cell cycle, followed by differentiation along retinal lineages. Indeed, we found that ESMVs induce these processes and change Müller cells' microenvironment towards a more permissive state for tissue regeneration."] 
24736402 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4039456/pdf/ Cobalt protoporphyrin pretreatment protects human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes from hypoxia/reoxygenation injury in vitro and increases graft size and vascularization in vivo. Stem cells translational medicine ['Human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CMs) can regenerate infarcted myocardium. However, when implanted into acutely infarcted hearts, few cells survive the first week postimplant. To improve early graft survival, hESC-CMs were pretreated with cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP), a transcriptional activator of cytoprotective heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). When hESC-CMs were challenged with an in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation injury, mimicking cell transplantation into an ischemic site, survival was significantly greater among cells pretreated with CoPP versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-pretreated controls. Compared with PBS-pretreated cells, CoPP-pretreated hESC-CM preparations exhibited higher levels of HO-1 expression, Akt phosphorylation, and vascular endothelial growth factor production, with reduced apoptosis, and a 30% decrease in intracellular reactive oxygen species. For in vivo translation, 1 × 10(7) hESC-CMs were pretreated ex vivo with CoPP or PBS and then injected intramyocardially into rat hearts immediately following acute infarction (permanent coronary ligation). At 1 week, hESC-CM content, assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction for human Alu sequences, was 17-fold higher in hearts receiving CoPP- than PBS-pretreated cells. On histomorphometry, cardiomyocyte graft size was 2.6-fold larger in hearts receiving CoPP- than PBS-pretreated cells, occupying up to 12% of the ventricular area. Vascular density of host-perfused human-derived capillaries was significantly greater in grafts composed of CoPP- than PBS-pretreated cells. Taken together, these experiments demonstrate that ex vivo pretreatment of hESC-CMs with a single dose of CoPP before intramyocardial implantation more than doubled resulting graft size and improved early graft vascularization in acutely infarcted hearts. These findings open the door for delivery of these, or other, stem cells during acute interventional therapy following myocardial infarction or ischemia.'] 
26724907 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4720022/pdf/ Xeno-Free and Defined Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Retinal Pigment Epithelial Cells Functionally Integrate in a Large-Eyed Preclinical Model. Stem cell reports ['Human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells could replace lost tissue in geographic atrophy (GA) but efficacy has yet to be demonstrated in a large-eyed model. Also, production of hESC-RPE has not yet been achieved in a xeno-free and defined manner, which is critical for clinical compliance and reduced immunogenicity. Here we describe an effective differentiation methodology using human laminin-521 matrix with xeno-free and defined medium. Differentiated cells exhibited characteristics of native RPE including morphology, pigmentation, marker expression, monolayer integrity, and polarization together with phagocytic activity. Furthermore, we established a large-eyed GA model that allowed in\xa0vivo imaging of hESC-RPE and host retina. Cells transplanted in suspension showed long-term integration and formed polarized monolayers exhibiting phagocytic and photoreceptor rescue capacity. We have developed a xeno-free and defined hESC-RPE differentiation method and present evidence of functional integration of clinically compliant hESC-RPE in a large-eyed disease model.'] 
25381126 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4803135/pdf/ In vitro human embryonic stem cell hematopoiesis mimics MYB-independent yolk sac hematopoiesis. Haematologica ['Although hematopoietic precursor activity can be generated in vitro from human embryonic stem cells, there is no solid evidence for the appearance of multipotent, self-renewing and transplantable hematopoietic stem cells. This could be due to short half-life of hematopoietic stem cells in culture or, alternatively, human embryonic stem cell-initiated hematopoiesis may be hematopoietic stem cell-independent, similar to yolk sac hematopoiesis, generating multipotent progenitors with limited expansion capacity. Since a MYB was reported to be an excellent marker for hematopoietic stem cell-dependent hematopoiesis, we generated a MYB-eGFP reporter human embryonic stem cell line to study formation of hematopoietic progenitor cells in vitro. We found CD34(+) hemogenic endothelial cells rounding up and developing into CD43(+) hematopoietic cells without expression of MYB-eGFP. MYB-eGFP(+) cells appeared relatively late in embryoid body cultures as CD34(+)CD43(+)CD45(-/lo) cells. These MYB-eGFP(+) cells were CD33 positive, proliferated in IL-3 containing media and hematopoietic differentiation was restricted to the granulocytic lineage. In agreement with data obtained on murine Myb(-/-) embryonic stem cells, bright eGFP expression was observed in a subpopulation of cells, during directed myeloid differentiation, which again belonged to the granulocytic lineage. In contrast, CD14(+) macrophage cells were consistently eGFP(-) and were derived from eGFP-precursors only. In summary, no evidence was obtained for in vitro generation of MYB(+) hematopoietic stem cells during embryoid body cultures. The observed MYB expression appeared late in culture and was confined to the granulocytic lineage.'] 
26582908 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4704872 [AVAILABLE ON 01/01/17]/pdf/ Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Iron Oxide-Labeled Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Progenitors. Stem cells translational medicine [StringElement('Given the limited regenerative capacity of the heart, cellular therapy with stem cell-derived cardiac cells could be a potential treatment for patients with heart disease. However, reliable imaging techniques to longitudinally assess engraftment of the transplanted cells are scant. To address this issue, we used ferumoxytol as a labeling agent of human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiac progenitor cells (hESC-CPCs) to facilitate tracking by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a large animal model. Differentiating hESCs were exposed to ferumoxytol at different time points and varying concentrations. We determined that treatment with ferumoxytol at 300 μg/ml on day 0 of cardiac differentiation offered adequate cell viability and signal intensity for MRI detection without compromising further differentiation into definitive cardiac lineages. Labeled hESC-CPCs were transplanted by open surgical methods into the left ventricular free wall of uninjured pig hearts and imaged both ex vivo and in vivo. Comprehensive T2*-weighted images were obtained immediately after transplantation and 40 days later before termination. The localization and dispersion of labeled cells could be effectively imaged and tracked at days 0 and 40 by MRI. Thus, under the described conditions, ferumoxytol can be used as a long-term, differentiation-neutral cell-labeling agent to track transplanted hESC-CPCs in vivo using MRI.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('The development of a safe and reproducible in vivo imaging technique to track the fate of transplanted human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiac progenitor cells (hESC-CPCs) is a necessary step to clinical translation. An iron oxide nanoparticle (ferumoxytol)-based approach was used for cell labeling and subsequent in vivo magnetic resonance imaging monitoring of hESC-CPCs transplanted into uninjured pig hearts. The present results demonstrate the use of ferumoxytol labeling and imaging techniques in tracking the location and dispersion of cell grafts, highlighting its utility in future cardiac stem cell therapy trials.', attributes={'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26285657 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4572902/pdf/ Targeted Disruption of the β2-Microglobulin Gene Minimizes the Immunogenicity of Human Embryonic Stem Cells. Stem cells translational medicine [StringElement('Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are a promising source of cells for tissue regeneration, yet histoincompatibility remains a major challenge to their clinical application. Because the human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules are the primary mediators of immune rejection, we hypothesized that cells derived from a hESC line lacking HLA-I expression could be transplanted without evoking a robust immune response from allogeneic recipients. In the present study, we used the replacement targeting strategy to delete exons 2 and 3 of β2-microglobulin on both gene alleles in hESCs. Because β2-microglobulin serves as the HLA-I light chain, disruption of the β2-microglobulin gene led to complete HLA-I deficiency on the cell surface of hESCs and their derivatives. Therefore, these cells were resistant to CD8+ T-cell-mediated destruction. Although interferon-γ (IFN-γ) treatment significantly induced β2-microglobulin expression, promoting CD8+ T cell-mediated killing of control hESCs and their derivatives, CD8+ T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity was barely observed with β2-microglobulin-null hESCs and their derivatives treated with IFN-γ. This genetic manipulation to disrupt HLA-I expression did not affect the self-renewal capacity, genomic stability, or pluripotency of hESCs. Despite being relatively sensitive to natural killer (NK) cell-mediated killing due to the lack of HLA-I expression, when transplanted into NK cell-depleted immunocompetent mice, β2-microglobulin-null hESCs developed into tumors resembling those derived from control hESCs in severe combined immunodeficiency mice. These results demonstrate that β2-microglobulin-null hESCs significantly reduce immunogenicity to CD8+ T cells and might provide a renewable source of cells for tissue regeneration without the need for HLA matching in the future.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('This study reports the generation of a novel β2-microglobulin (B2M)-/- human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line. Differentiated mature cells from this line do not express cell surface human leukocyte antigen molecules even after interferon-γ stimulation and are resistant to alloreactive CD8+ T cells. Moreover, this B2M-/- hESC line contains no off-target integration or cleavage events, is devoid of stable B2M mRNA, exhibits a normal karyotype, and retains its self-renewal capacity, genomic stability, and pluripotency. Although B2M-/- hESC-derived cells are more susceptible to natural killer (NK) cells, murine transplantation studies have indicated that they are, overall, much less immunogenic than normal hESCs. Thus, these data show for the first time that, in vivo, the advantages provided by B2M-/- hESC-derived cells in avoiding CD8+ T-cell killing appear significantly greater than any disadvantage caused by increased susceptibility to NK cells.', attributes={'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
23255130 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3575459/pdf/ Diploid, but not haploid, human embryonic stem cells can be derived from microsurgically repaired tripronuclear human zygotes. Cell cycle (Georgetown, Tex.) ['Human embryonic stem cells have shown tremendous potential in regenerative medicine, and the recent progress in haploid embryonic stem cells provides new insights for future applications of embryonic stem cells. Disruption of normal fertilized embryos remains controversial; thus, the development of a new source for human embryonic stem cells is important for their usefulness. Here, we investigated the feasibility of haploid and diploid embryo reconstruction and embryonic stem cell derivation using microsurgically repaired tripronuclear human zygotes. Diploid and haploid zygotes were successfully reconstructed, but a large proportion of them still had a tripolar spindle assembly. The reconstructed embryos developed to the blastocyst stage, although the loss of chromosomes was observed in these zygotes. Finally, triploid and diploid human embryonic stem cells were derived from tripronuclear and reconstructed zygotes (from which only one pronucleus was removed), but haploid human embryonic stem cells were not successfully derived from the reconstructed zygotes when two pronuclei were removed. Both triploid and diploid human embryonic stem cells showed the general characteristics of human embryonic stem cells. These results indicate that the lower embryo quality resulting from abnormal spindle assembly contributed to the failure of the haploid embryonic stem cell derivation. However, the successful derivation of diploid embryonic stem cells demonstrated that microsurgical tripronuclear zygotes are an alternative source of human embryonic stem cells. In the future, improving spindle assembly will facilitate the application of triploid zygotes to the field of haploid embryonic stem cells.'] 
23612295 Currently the full-text not available Max is a repressor of germ cell-related gene expression in mouse embryonic stem cells. Nature communications ['Embryonic stem cells and primordial germ cells (PGCs) express many pluripotency-associated genes, but embryonic stem cells do not normally undergo conversion into primordial germ cells. Thus, we predicted that there is a mechanism that represses primordial germ cell-related gene expression in embryonic stem cells. Here we identify genes involved in this putative mechanism, by using an embryonic stem cell line with a Vasa reporter in an RNA interference screen of transcription factor genes expressed in embryonic stem cells. We identify five genes that result in the expression of Vasa when silenced. Of these, Max is the most striking. Transcriptome analysis reveals that Max knockdown in embryonic stem cells results in selective, global derepression of germ cell-specific genes. Max interacts with histone H3K9 methyltransferases and associates with the germ cell-specific genes in embryonic stem cells. In addition, Max knockdown results in a decrease in histone H3K9 dimethylation at their promoter regions. We propose that Max is part of protein complex that acts as a repressor of germ cell-related genes in embryonic stem cells.'] 
25894570 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4403923/pdf/ Interleukin-1β-induced autophagy-related gene 5 regulates proliferation of embryonic stem cell-derived odontoblastic cells. PloS one ['We previously established a method for the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells into α2 integrin-positive odontoblast-like cells. We also reported that Wnt5 in response to interleukin (IL)-1β induces matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3-regulated cell proliferation in these cells. Our findings suggest that MMP-3 plays a potentially unique physiological role in the generation of odontoblast-like cells under an inflammatory state. Here, we examined whether up-regulation of autophagy-related gene (Atg) 5 by IL-1β was mediated by Wnt5 signaling, thus leading to increased proliferation of odontoblast-like cells. IL-1β increased the mRNA and protein levels of Atg5, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain (LC3, a mammalian homolog of yeast Atg8) and Atg12. Treatment with siRNAs against Atg5, but not LC3 and Atg12, suppressed the IL-1β-induced increase in MMP-3 expression and cell proliferation. Our siRNA analyses combined with western blot analysis revealed a unique sequential cascade involving Atg5, Wnt5a and MMP-3, which resulted in the potent increase in odontoblastic cell proliferation. These results demonstrate the unique involvement of Atg5 in IL-1β-induced proliferation of embryonic stem cell-derived odontoblast-like cells.'] 
24786547 Currently the full-text not available A screen of suitable inducers for germline differentiation of chicken embryonic stem cells. Animal reproduction science ['Differentiation of germ cells from embryonic stem cells in vitro could have great application for treating infertility and provide an excellent model for uncovering molecular mechanisms of germline generation. In this study, we aim to screen the suitable inducers that may prove the efficiency of driving chicken embryonic stem cells (ES cells) toward germ cells. The male ES cells were separeted into different groups: single retinoic acid (RA) treatment, co-cultured with sertoli cell feeder with RA induction, cultured on matrix proteins (fibronectin, laminin and collagen) with RA treatment, cultured on fibronectin with sertoli cell feeder and RA induction, and single bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) treatment. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunoourescence were performed to characterize the ES cells differentiation process. The results showed that spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs)-like were not detected in single RA and RA with collagen groups, but were observed in the other groups. The expression of ES specific genes (Nanog and Sox2) was decreased while SSCs marker genes (Dazl, Stra8, integrin α6, integrinβ1 and C-kit) was remarkably increased. The multiple comparsion results showed that the expression of SSCs marker genes in RA with sertoli cells group was significantly higher than the other groups(P<0.05). Collectively, our results suggested that chicken ES cells possess the potency to differentiate into SSCs-like cells in vitro through RA, matrix proteins, sertoli cells and BMP4 induction, of which co-cultured with sertoli cell feeder with RA induction was proved to be the best.'] 
24674590 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3997293/pdf/ Role of retinoic acid and fibroblast growth factor 2 in neural differentiation from cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) embryonic stem cells. Comparative medicine ['Retinoic acid is a widely used factor in both mouse and human embryonic stem cells. It suppresses differentiation to mesoderm and enhances differentiation to ectoderm. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) is widely used to induce differentiation to neurons in mice, yet in primates, including humans, it maintains embryonic stem cells in the undifferentiated state. In this study, we established an FGF2 low-dose-dependent embryonic stem cell line from cynomolgus monkeys and then analyzed neural differentiation in cultures supplemented with retinoic acid and FGF2. When only retinoic acid was added to culture, neurons differentiated from FGF2 low-dose-dependent embryonic stem cells. When both retinoic acid and FGF2 were added, neurons and astrocytes differentiated from the same embryonic stem cell line. Thus, retinoic acid promotes the differentiation from embryonic stem cells to neuroectoderm. Although FGF2 seems to promote self-renewal in stem cells, its effects on the differentiation of stem cells are influenced by the presence or absence of supplemental retinoic acid.'] 
25497839 Currently the full-text not available Enhanced expression of FNDC5 in human embryonic stem cell-derived neural cells along with relevant embryonic neural tissues. Gene ['Availability of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) has enhanced the capability of basic and clinical research in the context of human neural differentiation. Derivation of neural progenitor (NP) cells from hESCs facilitates the process of human embryonic development through the generation of neuronal subtypes. We have recently indicated that fibronectin type III domain containing 5 protein (FNDC5) expression is required for appropriate neural differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). Bioinformatics analyses have shown the presence of three isoforms for human FNDC5 mRNA. To differentiate which isoform of FNDC5 is involved in the process of human neural differentiation, we have used hESCs as an in vitro model for neural differentiation by retinoic acid (RA) induction. The hESC line, Royan H5, was differentiated into a neural lineage in defined adherent culture treated by RA and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). We collected all cell types that included hESCs, rosette structures, and neural cells in an attempt to assess the expression of FNDC5 isoforms. There was a contiguous increase in all three FNDC5 isoforms during the neural differentiation process. Furthermore, the highest level of expression of the isoforms was significantly observed in neural cells compared to hESCs and the rosette structures known as neural precursor cells (NPCs). High expression levels of FNDC5 in human fetal brain and spinal cord tissues have suggested the involvement of this gene in neural tube development. Additional research is necessary to determine the major function of FDNC5 in this process.'] 
25231290 Currently the full-text not available Retinoic acid can induce mouse embryonic stem cell R1/E to differentiate toward female germ cells while oleanolic acid can induce R1/E to differentiate toward both types of germ cells. Cell biology international ['Retinoic acid (RA) and oleanolic acid (OA) were studied about their potential to induce mouse embryonic stem cell R1/E (MESC-R1/E) to differentiate toward germ cells. Embryoid bodies (EBs) first formed from MESC-R1/E and EBs were allowed to attach to the bottoms of normal cell-culturing plate and grow. Then, different compounds including RA, OA and so on were respectively added to induce MESC-R1/E to differentiate. After 72\u2009h, microscopy images were taken for all interventions, then total RNAs were extracted, cDNAs were synthesized and real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (qPCR) was performed to detect the transcriptional expression patterns of 11 reproductive-differentiation-related genes for different compounds respectively. During the data analysis, it was found RA significantly up-regulated the expression levels of GDF-9, Stra8, SCP3, Mvh, ZP1, ZP2, and ZP3, while significantly down-regulated the levels of Itag6 and Itgb1, and the level of Oct-4 was down-regulated insignificantly, while the level of TP2 was up-regulated insignificantly; OA significantly up-regulated the expression levels of Stra8, SCP3, Mvh, ZP1, ZP2, Itgb1, and TP2, and the levels of Oct-4, GDF-9, ZP3, and Itga6 were up-regulated insignificantly. The data showed that RA can induce MESC-R1/E to differentiate toward female germ cells while OA can induce MESC-R1/E to differentiate toward male and female germ cells.'] 
23871934 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3898852/pdf/ The self-renewal of mouse embryonic stem cells is regulated by cell-substratum adhesion and cell spreading. The international journal of biochemistry & cell biology ['Mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) undergo self-renewal in the presence of the cytokine, leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF). Following LIF withdrawal, mESCs differentiate, and this is accompanied by an increase in cell-substratum adhesion and cell spreading. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between cell spreading and mESC differentiation. Using E14 and R1 mESC lines, we have restricted cell spreading in the absence of LIF by either culturing mESCs on chemically defined, weakly adhesive biomaterial substrates, or by manipulating the cytoskeleton. We demonstrate that by restricting the degree of spreading by either method, mESCs can be maintained in an undifferentiated and pluripotent state. Under these conditions, self-renewal occurs without the need for LIF and is independent of nuclear translocation of tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT3 or β-catenin, which have previously been implicated in self-renewal. We also demonstrate that the effect of restricted cell spreading on mESC self-renewal is not mediated by increased intercellular adhesion, as evidenced by the observations that inhibition of mESC adhesion using a function blocking anti E-cadherin antibody or siRNA do not promote differentiation. These results show that mESC spreading and differentiation are regulated both by LIF and by cell-substratum adhesion, consistent with the hypothesis that cell spreading is the common intermediate step in the regulation of mESC differentiation by either LIF or cell-substratum adhesion.'] 
26114724 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4622597/pdf/ Histone variants as emerging regulators of embryonic stem cell identity. Epigenetics ['Dynamic regulation of chromatin structure is an important mechanism for balancing the pluripotency and cell fate decision in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Indeed ESCs are characterized by unusual chromatin packaging, and a wide variety of chromatin regulators have been implicated in control of pluripotency and differentiation. Genome-wide maps of epigenetic factors have revealed a unique epigenetic signature in pluripotent ESCs and have contributed models to explain their plasticity. In addition to the well known epigenetic regulation through DNA methylation, histone posttranslational modifications, chromatin remodeling, and non-coding RNA, histone variants are emerging as important regulators of ESC identity. In this review, we summarize and discuss the recent progress that has highlighted the central role of histone variants in ESC pluripotency and ESC fate, focusing, in particular, on H1 variants, H2A variants H2A.X, H2A.Z and macroH2A and H3 variant H3.3.'] 
24939742 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4195499/pdf/ mRNA-Seq and microRNA-Seq whole-transcriptome analyses of rhesus monkey embryonic stem cell neural differentiation revealed the potential regulators of rosette neural stem cells. DNA research : an international journal for rapid publication of reports on genes and genomes ['Rosette neural stem cells (R-NSCs) represent early stage of neural development and possess full neural differentiation and regionalization capacities. R-NSCs are considered as stem cells of neural lineage and have important implications in the study of neurogenesis and cell replacement therapy. However, the molecules regulating their functional properties remain largely unknown. Rhesus monkey is an ideal model to study human neural degenerative diseases and plays intermediate translational roles as therapeutic strategies evolved from rodent systems to human clinical applications. In this study, we derived R-NSCs from rhesus monkey embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and systematically investigated the unique expressions of mRNAs, microRNAs (miRNAs), and signalling pathways by genome-wide comparison of the mRNA and miRNA profilings of ESCs, R-NSCs at early (R-NSCP1) and late (R-NSCP6) passages, and neural progenitor cells. Apart from the R-NSCP1-specific protein-coding genes and miRNAs, we identified several pathways including Hedgehog and Wnt highly activated in R-NSCP1. The possible regulatory interactions among the miRNAs, protein-coding genes, and signalling pathways were proposed. Besides, many genes with alternative splicing switch were identified at R-NSCP1. These data provided valuable resource to understand the regulation of early neurogenesis and to better manipulate the R-NSCs for cell replacement therapy.'] 
26130756 Currently the full-text not available Computational modelling of embryonic stem-cell fate control. Development (Cambridge, England) ['The maintenance of pluripotency in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), its loss during lineage specification or its re-induction to generate induced pluripotent stem cells are central topics in stem cell biology. To uncover the molecular basis and the design principles of pluripotency control, a multitude of experimental, but also an increasing number of computational, studies have been published. Here, we consider recent reports that apply computational or mathematical modelling approaches to describe the regulatory processes that underlie cell fate decisions in mouse ESCs. We summarise the principles, the strengths and potentials but also the limitations of different computational strategies.'] 
23630199 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3776023/pdf/ Geminin restrains mesendodermal fate acquisition of embryonic stem cells and is associated with antagonism of Wnt signaling and enhanced polycomb-mediated repression. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ["Embryonic cells use both growth factor signaling and cell intrinsic transcriptional and epigenetic regulation to acquire early cell fates. Underlying mechanisms that integrate these cues are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of Geminin, a nucleoprotein that interacts with both transcription factors and epigenetic regulatory complexes, during fate acquisition of mouse embryonic stem cells. In order to determine Geminin's role in mesendoderm formation, a process which occurs during embryonic gastrulation, we selectively over-expressed or knocked down Geminin in an in vitro model of differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells. We found that Geminin antagonizes mesendodermal fate acquisition, while these cells instead maintain elevated expression of genes associated with pluripotency of embryonic stem cells. During mesendodermal fate acquisition, Geminin knockdown promotes Wnt signaling, while Bmp, Fgf, and Nodal signaling are not affected. Moreover, we showed that Geminin facilitates the repression of mesendodermal genes that are regulated by the Polycomb repressor complex. Geminin directly binds several of these genes, while Geminin knockdown in mesendodermal cells reduces Polycomb repressor complex occupancy at these loci and increases trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 4, which correlates with active gene expression. Together, these results indicate that Geminin is required to restrain mesendodermal fate acquisition of early embryonic cells and that this is associated with both decreased Wnt signaling and enhanced Polycomb repressor complex retention at mesendodermal genes."] 
25660408 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4375940/pdf/ In vivo repopulating activity emerges at the onset of hematopoietic specification during embryonic stem cell differentiation. Stem cell reports ['The generation of in vivo repopulating hematopoietic cells from in vitro differentiating embryonic stem cells has remained a long-standing challenge. To date, hematopoietic engraftment has mostly been achieved through the enforced expression of ectopic transcription factors. Here, we describe serum-free culture conditions that allow the generation of in vivo repopulating hematopoietic cells in the absence of ectopically expressed factors. We show that repopulating activity arises immediately upon the commitment of mesodermal precursors to the blood program, within the first wave of hematopoietic specification. We establish that the formation of these progenitors is extremely transient and exquisitely sensitive to the cytokine milieu. Our findings define the precise differentiating stage at which hematopoietic repopulating activity first appears in vitro, and suggest that during embryonic stem cell differentiation, all hematopoietic programs are unraveled simultaneously from the mesoderm in the absence of cues that restrict the coordinated emergence of each lineage as is normally observed during embryogenesis.'] 
25204799 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4465342/pdf/ Divergence(s) in nodal signaling between aggressive melanoma and embryonic stem cells. International journal of cancer ["The significant role of the embryonic morphogen Nodal in maintaining the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells is well documented. Interestingly, the recent discovery of Nodal's re-expression in several aggressive and metastatic cancers has highlighted its critical role in self renewal and maintenance of the stem cell-like characteristics of tumor cells, such as melanoma. However, the key TGFβ/Nodal signaling component(s) governing Nodal's effects in metastatic melanoma remain mostly unknown. By employing receptor profiling at the mRNA and protein level(s), we made the novel discovery that embryonic stem cells and metastatic melanoma cells share a similar repertoire of Type I serine/threonine kinase receptors, but diverge in their Type II receptor expression. Ligand:receptor crosslinking and native gel binding assays indicate that metastatic melanoma cells employ the heterodimeric TGFβ receptor I/TGFβ receptor II (TGFβRI/TGFβRII) for signal transduction, whereas embryonic stem cells use the Activin receptors I and II (ACTRI/ACTRII). This unexpected receptor usage by tumor cells was tested by: neutralizing antibody to block its function; and transfecting the dominant negative receptor to compete with the endogenous receptor for ligand binding. Furthermore, a direct biological role for TGFβRII was found to underlie vasculogenic mimicry (VM), an endothelial phenotype contributing to vascular perfusion and associated with the functional plasticity of aggressive melanoma. Collectively, these findings reveal the divergence in Nodal signaling between embryonic stem cells and metastatic melanoma that can impact new therapeutic strategies targeting the re-emergence of embryonic pathways."] 
26350609 Currently the full-text not available Establishment of a novel human embryonic stem cell-derived trophoblastic spheroid implantation model. Human reproduction (Oxford, England) [StringElement('Can human embryonic stem cell-derived trophoblastic spheroids be used to study the early stages of implantation?', attributes={'Label': 'STUDY QUESTION', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('We generated a novel human embryonic stem cell-derived trophoblastic spheroid model mimicking human blastocysts in the early stages of implantation.', attributes={'Label': 'SUMMARY ANSWER', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'}), StringElement('Both human embryos and choriocarcinoma cell line derived spheroids can attach onto endometrial cells and are used as models to study the early stages of implantation. However, human embryos are limited and the use of cancer cell lines for spheroid generation remains sub-optimal for research.', attributes={'Label': 'WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Experimental induced differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into trophoblast and characterization of the trophoblast.', attributes={'Label': 'STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Trophoblastic spheroids (BAP-EB) were generated by inducing differentiation of a human embryonic stem cell line, VAL3 cells with bone morphogenic factor-4, A83-01 (a TGF-β inhibitor), and PD173074 (a FGF receptor-3 inhibitor) after embryoid body formation. The expressions of trophoblastic markers and hCG levels were studied by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. BAP-EB attachment and invasion assays were performed on different cell lines and primary endometrial cells.', attributes={'Label': 'PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('After 48 h of induced differentiation, the BAP-EB resembled early implanting human embryos in terms of size and morphology. The spheroids derived from embryonic stem cells (VAL3), but not from several other cell lines studied, possessed a blastocoel-like cavity. BAP-EB expressed several markers of trophectoderm of human blastocysts on Day 2 of induced differentiation. In the subsequent days of differentiation, the cells of the spheroids differentiated into trophoblast-like cells expressing trophoblastic markers, though at levels lower than that in the primary trophoblasts or in a choriocarcinoma cell line. On Day 3 of induced differentiation, BAP-EB selectively attached onto endometrial epithelial cells, but not other non-endometrial cell lines or an endometrial cell line that had lost its epithelial character. The attachment rates of BAP-EB was significantly higher on primary endometrial epithelial cells (EEC) taken from 7 days after hCG induction of ovulation (hCG+7 day) when compared with that from hCG+2 day. The spheroids also invaded through Ishikawa cells and the primary endometrial stromal cells in the co-culture.', attributes={'Label': 'MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The attachment rates of BAP-EB were compared between EEC obtained from Day 2 and Day 7 of the gonadotrophin stimulated cycle, but not the natural cycles.', attributes={'Label': 'LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'}), StringElement('BAP-EB have the potential to be used as a test for predicting endometrial receptivity in IVF cycles and provide a novel approach to study early human implantation, trophoblastic cell differentiation and trophoblastic invasion into human endometrial cells.', attributes={'Label': 'WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25524013 Currently the full-text not available Distinct gene expression responses of two anticonvulsant drugs in a novel human embryonic stem cell based neural differentiation assay protocol. Toxicology in vitro : an international journal published in association with BIBRA ['Hazard assessment of chemicals and pharmaceuticals is increasingly gaining from knowledge about molecular mechanisms of toxic action acquired in dedicated in vitro assays. We have developed an efficient human embryonic stem cell neural differentiation test (hESTn) that allows the study of the molecular interaction of compounds with the neural differentiation process. Within the 11-day differentiation protocol of the assay, embryonic stem cells lost their pluripotency, evidenced by the reduced expression of stem cell markers Pou5F1 and Nanog. Moreover, stem cells differentiated into neural cells, with morphologically visible neural structures together with increased expression of neural differentiation-related genes such as βIII-tubulin, Map2, Neurogin1, Mapt and Reelin. Valproic acid (VPA) and carbamazepine (CBZ) exposure during hESTn differentiation led to concentration-dependent reduced expression of βIII-tubulin, Neurogin1 and Reelin. In parallel VPA caused an increased gene expression of Map2 and Mapt which is possibly related to the neural protective effect of VPA. These findings illustrate the added value of gene expression analysis for detecting compound specific effects in hESTn. Our findings were in line with and could explain effects observed in animal studies. This study demonstrates the potential of this assay protocol for mechanistic analysis of specific compound-induced inhibition of human neural cell differentiation.'] 
25394653 Currently the full-text not available Ambivalent journeys of hope: embryonic stem cell therapy in a clinic in India. Health (London, England : 1997) ['Stem cell therapy in non-Western countries such as India has received a lot of attention. Apart from media reports, there are a number of social science analyses of stem cell policy, therapy, and research, their ethical implications, and impact of advertising on patients. Nevertheless, in the media reports as well as in academic studies, experiences of patients, who undertake overseas journeys for stem cell therapy, have largely been either ignored or presented reductively, often as a "false hope." In this article, I analyze the experiences of patients and their "journeys of hope" to NuTech Mediworld, an embryonic stem cell therapy clinic in New Delhi, India. My analysis, which draws on my observations in the clinic and patients\' experiences, instead of seeking to adjudicate whether embryonic stem cell therapy in clinics such as NuTech is right or wrong, true or false, focuses on how patients navigate and contest these concerns. I utilize Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari\'s "concepts," lines of flight and deterritorialization, to highlight how embryonic stem cell therapy\'s "political economy of hope" embodies deterritorialization of several "regimes of truth" and how these deterritorializations impact patients\' experiences.'] 
24123213 Currently the full-text not available Ischemia, immunosuppression, and SSEA-1-negative cells all contribute to tumors resulting from mouse embryonic stem cell-derived neural progenitor transplantation. Journal of neuroscience research ['Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells can lead to tumors after transplantation. The cellular source of such tumors remains under debate. We investigated the tumor formation resulting from mES cell-derived NPCs in a rat stroke model and in nude mice. After 2 hr of ischemia and 48 hr of reperfusion, the NPCs were transplanted into the ischemic core of the xenogeneic rats. Four weeks after transplantation, the grafted cells were found to be viable at the border of the necrosis and had differentiated into neurons. Transplanted rats did not exhibit any behavioral improvement, because tumor formed in 90% of the animals. Immunosuppression facilitated tumor formation. Tumors were observed in 40% of normal rats after NPC transplantation when cyclosporin A was administered. Meanwhile, no tumor formation was observed without cyclosporin A. Ischemic damage also facilitated tumor formation, because NPCs gave rise to tumors in 90% of ischemic rats, a percentage significantly higher than that in intact rats, which was 40%. The SSEA-1-positive cells isolated from stage 4 are not exactly undifferentiated ES cells. They exhibited a marker gene transcription profile different from that of ES cells and did not form tumors in transplanted nude mice. The undifferentiated ES cells remaining after differentiation did not contribute to tumors either. First, the tumor formation rate resulting from undifferentiated ES cells in the brains of normal rats is 0%, significantly lower than that of NPCs. Second, transplanted NPCs that led to 100% tumors in nude mice contained approximately 1.5 × 10(3) Oct-4-positive cells; however, even 5 × 10(5) undifferentiated ES cells formed neoplasm only in 40% nude mice.'] 
27036118 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4818397/pdf/ Human embryonic stem cell-derived mesenchymal stromal cells ameliorate collagen-induced arthritis by inducing host-derived indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase. Arthritis research & therapy [StringElement('The immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory properties of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) have prompted their therapeutic application in several autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis. Adult MSC are finite and their clinical use is restricted by the need for long-term expansion protocols that can lead to genomic instability. Inhibition of Smad2/3 signaling in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC) provides an infinite source of MSC that match the phenotype and functional properties of adult MSC. Here, we test the therapeutic potential of hPSC-MSC of embryonic origin (embryonic stem cell-derived mesenchymal stromal cells, hESC-MSC) in the experimental model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA).', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement("CIA was induced in DBA/1 mice by immunization with type II collagen (CII) in Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA). Mice were treated with either a single dose (10(6) cells/mouse) of hESC-MSC on the day of immunization (prophylaxis) or with three doses of hESC-MSC every other day starting on the day of arthritis onset (therapy). Arthritis severity was evaluated daily for six weeks and ten days, respectively. Frequency of Treg (FoxP3(+)), Th1 (IFNγ(+)) and Th17 (IL17(+)) CD4(+) T cells in inguinal lymph nodes (ILN) was quantified by flow cytometry. Serum levels of anti-CII antibodies were determined by ELISA. Detection of hESC-MSC and quantification of murine and human indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO1) expression was performed by quantitative real-time PCR. Statistical differences were analyzed by ANOVA and the Mann-Whitney U test.", attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Administration of hESC-MSC to mice with established arthritis reduced disease severity compared to control-treated mice. Analysis of CD4 T cell populations in treated mice showed an increase in FoxP3(+) Treg and IFNγ(+) Th1 cells but not in Th17 cells in the ILN. Anti-CII antibody levels were not affected by treatment. Migration of hESC-MSC to the ILN in treated mice was associated with the induction of murine IDO1.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Treatment with hESC-MSC ameliorates CIA by inducing IFNγ(+) Th1 cells and IDO1 in the host. Thus, hESC-MSC can provide an infinite cellular source for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSION', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26597546 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4907541 [AVAILABLE ON 01/01/17]/pdf/ Mineral particles modulate osteo-chondrogenic differentiation of embryonic stem cell aggregates. Acta biomaterialia [StringElement('Pluripotent stem cell aggregates offer an attractive approach to emulate embryonic morphogenesis and skeletal development. Calcium phosphate (CaP) based biomaterials have been shown to promote bone healing due to their osteoconductive and potential osteoinductive properties. In this study, we hypothesized that incorporation of CaP-coated hydroxyapatite mineral particles (MPs) within murine embryonic stem cell (ESC) aggregates could promote osteo-chondrogenic differentiation. Our results demonstrated that MP alone dose-dependently promoted the gene expression of chondrogenic and early osteogenic markers. In combination with soluble osteoinductive cues, MPs enhanced the hypertrophic and osteogenic phenotype, and mineralization of ESC aggregates. Additionally, MPs dose-dependently reduced ESC pluripotency and thereby decreased the size of teratomas derived from MP-incorporated ESC aggregates in vivo. Our data suggested a novel yet simple means of using mineral particles to control stem cell fate and create an osteochondral niche for skeletal tissue engineering applications.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Directing stem cell differentiation and morphogenesis via biomaterials represents a novel strategy to promote cell fates and tissue formation. Our study demonstrates the ability of calcium phosphate-based mineral particles to promote osteochondrogenic differentiation of embryonic stem cell aggregates as well as modulate teratoma formation in vivo. This hybrid biomaterial-ESC aggregate approach serves as an enabling platform to evaluate the ability of biomaterials to regulate stem cell fate and regenerate functional skeletal tissues for clinical applications.', attributes={'Label': 'STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26456652 Currently the full-text not available Altered calcium handling and increased contraction force in human embryonic stem cell derived cardiomyocytes following short term dexamethasone exposure. Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['One limitation in using human pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs) for disease modeling and cardiac safety pharmacology is their immature functional phenotype compared with adult cardiomyocytes. Here, we report that treatment of human embryonic stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CMs) with dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, activated glucocorticoid signaling which in turn improved their calcium handling properties and contractility. L-type calcium current and action potential properties were not affected by dexamethasone but significantly faster calcium decay, increased forces of contraction and sarcomeric lengths, were observed in hESC-CMs after dexamethasone exposure. Activating the glucocorticoid pathway can thus contribute to mediating hPSC-CMs maturation.'] 
26586221 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4725202/pdf/ Selection and dynamics of embryonic stem cell integration into early mouse embryos. Development (Cambridge, England) ['The process by which pluripotent cells incorporate into host embryos is of interest to investigate cell potency and cell fate decisions. Previous studies suggest that only a minority of the embryonic stem cell (ESC) inoculum contributes to the adult chimaera. How incoming cells are chosen for integration or elimination remains unclear. By comparing a heterogeneous mix of undifferentiated and differentiating ESCs (serum/LIF) with more homogeneous undifferentiated culture (2i/LIF), we examine the role of cellular heterogeneity in this process. Time-lapse ex vivo imaging revealed a drastic elimination of serum/LIF ESCs during early development in comparison with 2i/LIF ESCs. Using a fluorescent reporter for naive pluripotency (Rex1-GFP), we established that the acutely eliminated serum/LIF ESCs had started to differentiate. The rejected cells were apparently killed by apoptosis. We conclude that a selection process exists by which unwanted differentiating cells are eliminated from the embryo. However, occasional Rex1(-) cells were able to integrate. Upregulation of Rex1 occurred in a proportion of these cells, reflecting the potential of the embryonic environment to expedite diversion from differentiation priming to enhance the developing embryonic epiblast.'] 
25486050 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4601225/pdf/ The cellular form of the prion protein guides the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into neuron-, oligodendrocyte-, and astrocyte-committed lineages. Prion ['Prion protein, PrP(C), is a glycoprotein that is expressed on the cell surface beginning with the early stages of embryonic stem cell differentiation. Previously, we showed that ectopic expression of PrP(C) in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) triggered differentiation toward endodermal, mesodermal, and ectodermal lineages, whereas silencing of PrP(C) suppressed differentiation toward ectodermal but not endodermal or mesodermal lineages. Considering that PrP(C) might be involved in controlling the balance between cells of different lineages, the current study was designed to test whether PrP(C) controls differentiation of hESCs into cells of neuron-, oligodendrocyte-, and astrocyte-committed lineages. PrP(C) was silenced in hESCs cultured under three sets of conditions that were previously shown to induce hESCs differentiation into predominantly neuron-, oligodendrocyte-, and astrocyte-committed lineages. We found that silencing of PrP(C) suppressed differentiation toward all three lineages. Similar results were observed in all three protocols, arguing that the effect of PrP(C) was independent of differentiation conditions employed. Moreover, switching PrP(C) expression during a differentiation time course revealed that silencing PrP(C) expression during the very initial stage that corresponds to embryonic bodies has a more significant impact than silencing at later stages of differentiation. The current work illustrates that PrP(C) controls differentiation of hESCs toward neuron-, oligodendrocyte-, and astrocyte-committed lineages and is likely involved at the stage of uncommitted neural progenitor cells rather than lineage-committed neural progenitors.'] 
26631989 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4819991/pdf/ Histone modification profiling reveals differential signatures associated with human embryonic stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. Proteomics ['In this study, we trace developmental stages using epigenome changes in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) treated with drugs modulating either self-renewal or differentiation. Based on microscopy, qPCR and flow cytometry, we classified the treatment outcome as inducing pluripotency (hESC, flurbiprofen and gatifloxacin), mesendoderm (sinomenine), differentiation (cyamarin, digoxin, digitoxin, selegeline and theanine) and lineage-commitment (RA). When we analyzed histone PTMs that imprinted these gene and protein expressions, the above classification was reassorted. Hyperacetylation at H3K4, 9, 14, 18, 56 and 122 as well as H4K5, 8, 12 and 16 emerged as the pluripotency signature of hESCs. Methylations especially of H3 at K9, K20, K27 and K36 characterized differentiation initiation as seen in no-drug control and fluribiprofen. Sinomenine-treated cells clustered close to "differentiation initiators", consistent with flow cytometry where it induced mesendoderm, along with cyamarin and possibly selegnine. Neurectoderm, induced by RA and theanine manifested methylations on H3 shifts to H3.3. By both flow cytometry and histone PTM clustering, it appears that cells treated with gatifloxacin, flurbiprofen, digitoxin and digoxin were not yet lineage-committed or mixed cell types. Taken together, our moderate-throughput histone PTM profiling approach highlighted subtle epigenetic signatures that permitted us to predict divergent lineage progression even in differentiating cells with similar phenotype and gene expression.'] 
21542965 Currently the full-text not available Derivation and characterization of Chinese human embryonic stem cell line with high potential to differentiate into pancreatic and hepatic cells. Chinese medical journal [StringElement('Human embryonic stem cells have prospective uses in regenerative medicine and drug screening. Every human embryonic stem cell line has its own genetic background, which determines its specific ability for differentiation as well as susceptibility to drugs. It is necessary to compile many human embryonic stem cell lines with various backgrounds for future clinical use, especially in China due to its large population. This study contributes to isolating new Chinese human embryonic stem cell lines with clarified directly differentiation ability.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement("Donated embryos that exceeded clinical use in our in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) center were collected to establish human embryonic stem cells lines with informed consent. The classic growth factors of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and recombinant human leukaemia inhibitory factor (hLIF) for culturing embryonic stem cells were used to capture the stem cells from the plated embryos. Mechanical and enzymetic methods were used to propagate the newly established human embryonic stem cells line. The new cell line was checked for pluripotent characteristics with detecting the expression of stemness genes and observing spontaneous differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. Finally similar step-wise protocols from definitive endoderm to target specific cells were used to check the cell line's ability to directly differentiate into pancreatic and hepatic cells.", attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('We generated a new Chinese human embryonic stem cells line, CH1. This cell line showed the same characteristics as other reported Chinese human embryonic stem cells lines: normal morphology, karyotype and pluripotency in vitro and in vivo. The CH1 cells could be directly differentiated towards pancreatic and hepatic cells with equal efficiency compared to the H1 cell line.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('This newly established Chinese cell line, CH1, which is pluripotent and has high potential to differentiate into pancreatic and hepatic cells, will provide a useful tool for embryo development research, along with clinical treatments for diabetes and some hepatic diseases.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25947656 Currently the full-text not available Generation of mouse chimeras with high contribution of tetraploid embryonic stem cells and embryonic stem cell-fibroblast hybrid cells. Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.) ['The in vitro long-term cultivation of embryonic stem (ES) cells derived from pre-implantation embryos offers the unique possibility of combining ES cells with pre-implantation embryos to generate chimeras, thus facilitating the creation of a bridge between in vitro and in vivo investigations. Genomic manipulation using ES cells and homologous recombination is one of the most outstanding scientific achievements, resulting in the generation of animals with desirable genome modifications. As such, the generation of ES cells with different ploidy via cell fusion also deserves much attention because this approach allows for the production of chimeras that contain somatic cells with various ploidy. Therefore, this is a powerful tool that can be used to study the role of polyploidy in the normal development of mammals.'] 
26299974 Currently the full-text not available Murine embryonic stem cell line CGR8 expresses all subtypes of muscarinic receptors and multiple nicotinic receptor subunits: Down-regulation of α4- and β4-subunits during early differentiation. International immunopharmacology ['Non-neuronal acetylcholine mediates its cellular effects via stimulation of the G-protein-coupled muscarinic receptors and the ligand-gated ion channel nicotinic receptors. The murine embryonic stem cell line CGR8 synthesizes and releases non-neuronal acetylcholine. In the present study a systematic investigation of the expression of nicotinic receptor subunits and muscarinic receptors was performed, when the stem cells were grown in the presence or absence of LIF, as the latter condition induces early differentiation. CGR8 cells expressed multiple nicotinic receptor subtypes (α3, α4, α7, α9, α10, β1, β2, β3, β4, γ, δ, ε) and muscarinic receptors (M1, M3, M4, M5); M2 was detected only in 2 out of 8 cultures. LIF removal caused a down-regulation only of the α4- and β4-subunit. In conclusion, more or less the whole repertoire of cholinergic receptors is expressed on the murine embryonic stem cell line CGR8 for mediating cellular signaling of non-neuronal acetylcholine which acts via auto- and paracrine pathways. During early differentiation of the murine CGR8 stem cell signaling via nicotinic receptors containing α4- or β4 subunits is reduced. Thus, the so-called neuronal α4 nicotine receptor composed of these subunits may be involved in the regulation of pluripotency in this murine stem cell line.'] 
27036552 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4818510/pdf/ Hmga2 is necessary for Otx2-dependent exit of embryonic stem cells from the pluripotent ground state. BMC biology [StringElement("A crucial event in the differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) is the exit from the pluripotent ground state that leads to the acquisition of the 'primed' pluripotent phenotype, characteristic of the epiblast-like stem cells (EpiLCs). The transcription factors Oct4 and Otx2 play a key role in this phenomenon. In particular, Otx2 pioneers and activates new enhancers, which are silent in ESCs and which control the transcription of genes responsible for the acquisition of the EpiLC phenotype. An important point that remains to be addressed is the mechanism through which Otx2 engages the new enhancers and stably associates with them. Hmga2 is a member of the high-mobility group family of proteins, non-histone components of chromatin whose expression is high during embryogenesis and becomes low or undetectable in adults. Its high expression during embryogenesis suggests that Hmga2 fulfills important roles in development.", attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Here, we demonstrate that Hmga2 accumulates soon after the induction of ESC differentiation. Its suppression hampers the exit of ESCs from the pluripotent ground state and their differentiation into EpiLCs. Mechanistically, Hmga2 controls the differentiation process by cooperating with Otx2 in the pioneering of new enhancers. In Hmga2 null induced pluripotent stem cells we observe that Otx2 fails to regulate its target genes upon the induction of differentiation. Hmga2 associates to Otx2-bound loci in EpiLCs, and in Hmga2 KO cells Otx2 is unable to engage and activate the new enhancers, thus indicating that Hmga2 is required for the binding of Otx2 to its cis-elements. We find that this mechanism also operates on the Hmga2 gene, which is one of the targets of Otx2, thus indicating the existence of a positive feedback loop.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Our findings reveal a novel mechanism necessary for the exit of ESCs from the pluripotent ground state. Upon the induction of ESC differentiation, Otx2 alone or in combination with Oct4 engages new enhancers, which are silent in undifferentiated ESCs. The Hmga2 gene is activated by Otx2 and Hmga2 protein binds to the enhancers targeted by Otx2, thus facilitating the engagement and/or the stable association of Otx2. Therefore, our results demonstrate that Hmga2 is a key element of the regulatory network that governs the exit of ESCs from the pluripotent ground state.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
24704097 Currently the full-text not available Comparison of osteoblast and cardiomyocyte differentiation in the embryonic stem cell test for predicting embryotoxicity in vivo. Reproductive toxicology (Elmsford, N.Y.) ['One of the most studied alternative embryotoxicity assays is the embryonic stem cell test, in which the effect of compounds on cardiomyocyte differentiation is evaluated (subsequently termed the ESTc). This single differentiation endpoint may limit the predictive value of the assay. We recently published a novel embryonic stem cell based osteoblast differentiation assay (subsequently termed the ESTo), in which we studied the effect of six embryotoxic compounds. Differentiation is monitored via the differential expression of three genes related to osteogenesis (Runx2, SPARC and collagen type I). In the current study, we evaluated the effect of 14 additional compounds in the ESTo, to assess its added value as compared to the ESTc. To this end, we compared the effects of the compounds in the ESTo to their effects in the ESTc and to their published in vivo developmental toxicity profiles. The results show that there is a high overall correlation between compound potencies as regards inhibition of osteoblast and cardiomyocyte differentiation. Moreover, the results in both the ESTo and ESTc showed a significant correlation to in vivo developmental toxicity potency ranking of compounds tested. Interestingly, the embryotoxic effect of TCDD could only be detected using the ESTo, which can be explained based on its mechanism of action and its known inhibitory effect on osteogenesis. The results of TCDD suggest that incorporating the ESTo into a testing battery together with the ESTc could improve the overall predictive value of the battery.'] 
25873746 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4449101/pdf/ Productive Infection of Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived NKX2.1+ Respiratory Progenitors with Human Rhinovirus. Stem cells translational medicine [StringElement('Airway epithelial cells generated from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) represent a resource for research into a variety of human respiratory conditions, including those resulting from infection with common human pathogens. Using an NKX2.1-GFP reporter human embryonic stem cell line, we developed a serum-free protocol for the generation of NKX2.1(+) endoderm that, when transplanted into immunodeficient mice, matured into respiratory cell types identified by expression of CC10, MUC5AC, and surfactant proteins. Gene profiling experiments indicated that day 10 NKX2.1(+) endoderm expressed markers indicative of early foregut but lacked genes associated with later stages of respiratory epithelial cell differentiation. Nevertheless, NKX2.1(+) endoderm supported the infection and replication of the common respiratory pathogen human rhinovirus HRV1b. Moreover, NKX2.1(+) endoderm upregulated expression of IL-6, IL-8, and IL-1B in response to infection, a characteristic of human airway epithelial cells. Our experiments provide proof of principle for the use of PSC-derived respiratory epithelial cells in the study of cell-virus interactions.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('This report provides proof-of-principle experiments demonstrating, for the first time, that human respiratory progenitor cells derived from stem cells in the laboratory can be productively infected with human rhinovirus, the predominant cause of the common cold.', attributes={'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26897636 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4761209/pdf/ The involvement of protein kinase C-ε in isoflurane induced preconditioning of human embryonic stem cell--derived Nkx2.5(+) cardiac progenitor cells. BMC anesthesiology [StringElement('Anesthetic preconditioning can improve survival of cardiac progenitor cells exposed to oxidative stress. We investigated the role of protein kinase C and isoform protein kinase C-ε in isoflurane-induced preconditioning of cardiac progenitor cells exposed to oxidative stress.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Cardiac progenitor cells were obtained from undifferentiated human embryonic stem cells. Immunostaining with anti-Nkx2.5 was used to confirm the differentiated cardiac progenitor cells. Oxidative stress was induced by H2O2 and FeSO4. For anesthetic preconditioning, cardiac progenitor cells were exposed to 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mM of isoflurane. PMA and chelerythrine were used for protein kinase C activation and inhibition, while εψRACK and εV1-2 were used for protein kinase C -ε activation and inhibition, respectively.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Isoflurane-preconditioning decreased the death rate of Cardiac progenitor cells exposed to oxidative stress (death rates isoflurane 0.5 mM 12.7 ± 9.3%, 1.0 mM 12.0 ± 7.7% vs. control 31.4 ± 10.2%). Inhibitors of both protein kinase C and protein kinase C -ε abolished the preconditioning effect of isoflurane 0.5 mM (death rates 27.6 ± 13.5% and 25.9 ± 8.7% respectively), and activators of both protein kinase C and protein kinase C - ε had protective effects from oxidative stress (death rates 16.0 ± 3.2% and 10.6 ± 3.8% respectively).', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Both PKC and PKC-ε are involved in isoflurane-induced preconditioning of human embryonic stem cells -derived Nkx2.5(+) Cardiac progenitor cells under oxidative stress.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26192439 Currently the full-text not available Generation of stomach tissue from mouse embryonic stem cells. Nature cell biology ['Successful pluripotent stem cell differentiation methods have been developed for several endoderm-derived cells, including hepatocytes, β-cells and intestinal cells. However, stomach lineage commitment from pluripotent stem cells has remained a challenge, and only antrum specification has been demonstrated. We established a method for stomach differentiation from embryonic stem cells by inducing mesenchymal Barx1, an essential gene for in vivo stomach specification from gut endoderm. Barx1-inducing culture conditions generated stomach primordium-like spheroids, which differentiated into mature stomach tissue cells in both the corpus and antrum by three-dimensional culture. This embryonic stem cell-derived stomach tissue (e-ST) shared a similar gene expression profile with adult stomach, and secreted pepsinogen as well as gastric acid. Furthermore, TGFA overexpression in e-ST caused hypertrophic mucus and gastric anacidity, which mimicked Ménétrier disease in vitro. Thus, in vitro stomach tissue derived from pluripotent stem cells mimics in vivo development and can be used for stomach disease models.'] 
22138358 Currently the full-text not available Direct and indirect contribution of human embryonic stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells to liver repair in mice. Gastroenterology [StringElement('Many studies of embryonic stem cells have investigated direct cell replacement of damaged tissues, but little is known about how donor cell-derived signals affect host tissue regeneration. We investigated the direct and indirect roles of human embryonic stem cell-derived cells in liver repair in mice.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND & AIMS', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('To promote the initial differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into mesendoderm, we activated the β-catenin signaling pathway with lithium; cells were then further differentiated into hepatocyte-like cells. The differentiated cells were purified by indocyanine green staining and laser microdissection and characterized by immunostaining, polymerase chain reaction, biochemical function, electron microscopy, and transplantation analyses. To investigate indirect effects of these cells, secreted proteins (secretomes) were analyzed by a label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. Carbon tetrachloride was used to induce acute liver injury in mice; cells or secreted proteins were administered by intrasplenic or intraperitoneal injection, respectively.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('The differentiated hepatocyte-like cells had multiple features of normal hepatocytes, engrafted efficiently into mice, and continued to have hepatic features; they promoted proliferation of host hepatocytes and revascularization of injured host liver tissues. Proteomic analysis identified proteins secreted from these cells that might promote host tissue repair. Injection of the secreted proteins into injured livers of mice promoted significant amounts of tissue regeneration without cell grafts.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Hepatocyte-like cells derived from human embryonic stem cells contribute to recovery of injured liver tissues in mice, not only by cell replacement but also by delivering trophic factors that support endogenous liver regeneration.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25702531 Currently the full-text not available Derivation of keratinocytes from chicken embryonic stem cells: establishment and characterization of differentiated proliferative cell populations. Stem cell research ['A common challenge in avian cell biology is the generation of differentiated cell-lines, especially in the keratinocyte lineage. Only a few avian cell-lines are available and very few of them show an interesting differentiation profile. During the last decade, mammalian embryonic stem cell-lines were shown to differentiate into almost all lineages, including keratinocytes. Although chicken embryonic stem cells had been obtained in the 1990s, few differentiation studies toward the ectodermal lineage were reported. Consequently, we explored the differentiation of chicken embryonic stem cells toward the keratinocyte lineage by using a combination of stromal induction, ascorbic acid, BMP4 and chicken serum. During the induction period, we observed a downregulation of pluripotency markers and an upregulation of epidermal markers. Three homogenous cell populations were derived, which were morphologically similar to chicken primary keratinocytes, displaying intracellular lipid droplets in almost every pavimentous cell. These cells could be serially passaged without alteration of their morphology and showed gene and protein expression profiles of epidermal markers similar to chicken primary keratinocytes. These cells represent an alternative to the isolation of chicken primary keratinocytes, being less cumbersome to handle and reducing the number of experimental animals used for the preparation of primary cells.'] 
25555917 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4342478/pdf/ Efficient delivery and functional expression of transfected modified mRNA in human embryonic stem cell-derived retinal pigmented epithelial cells. The Journal of biological chemistry ['Gene- and cell-based therapies are promising strategies for the treatment of degenerative retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration, Stargardt disease, and retinitis pigmentosa. Cellular engineering before transplantation may allow the delivery of cellular factors that can promote functional improvements, such as increased engraftment or survival of transplanted cells. A current challenge in traditional DNA-based vector transfection is to find a delivery system that is both safe and efficient, but using mRNA as an alternative to DNA can circumvent these major roadblocks. In this study, we show that both unmodified and modified mRNA can be delivered to retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells with a high efficiency compared with conventional plasmid delivery systems. On the other hand, administration of unmodified mRNA induced a strong innate immune response that was almost absent when using modified mRNA. Importantly, transfection of mRNA encoding a key regulator of RPE gene expression, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), confirmed the functionality of the delivered mRNA. Immunostaining showed that transfection with either type of mRNA led to the expression of roughly equal levels of MITF, primarily localized in the nucleus. Despite these findings, quantitative RT-PCR analyses showed that the activation of the expression of MITF target genes was higher following transfection with modified mRNA compared with unmodified mRNA. Our findings, therefore, show that modified mRNA transfection can be applied to human embryonic stem cell-derived RPE cells and that the method is safe, efficient, and functional.'] 
24582239 Currently the full-text not available Gelatin-PMVE/MA composite scaffold promotes expansion of embryonic stem cells. Materials science & engineering. C, Materials for biological applications ["We introduce a new composite scaffold of gelatin and polymethyl vinyl ether-alt-maleic anhydride (PMVE/MA) for expansion of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in an in vitro environment. To optimize the scaffold, we prepared a gelatin scaffold (G) and three composite scaffolds namely GP-1, GP-2, and GP-3 with varying PMVE/MA concentrations (0.2-1%) and characterized them by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), swelling study, compression testing and FTIR. SEM micrographs revealed interconnected porous structure in all the scaffolds. The permissible hemolysis ratio and activation of platelets by scaffolds confirmed the hemocompatibility of scaffolds. Initial biocompatibility assessment of scaffolds was conducted using hepatocarcinoma (Hep G2) cells and adhesion, proliferation and infiltration of Hep G2 cells in depth of scaffolds were observed, proving the scaffold's biocompatibility. Further Oct4B2 mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), which harbor a green fluorescence protein transgene under regulatory control of the Oct4 promotor, were examined for expansion on scaffolds with MTT assay. The GP-2 scaffold demonstrated the best cell proliferation and was further explored for ESC adherence and infiltration in depth (SEM and confocal), and pluripotent state of mESCs was assessed with the expression of Oct4-GFP and stage-specific embryonic antigen-1 (SSEA-1). This study reports the first demonstration of biocompatibility of gelatin-PMVE/MA composite scaffold and presents this scaffold as a promising candidate for embryonic stem cell based tissue engineering."] 
20039925 Currently the full-text not available Chicken embryonic stem cells as a non-mammalian embryonic stem cell model. Development, growth & differentiation ['Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) were isolated in the early 1980s from mouse and in the late 1990s from primate and human. These cells present the unique property of self-renewal and the ability to generate differentiated progeny in all embryonic lineages both in vitro and in vivo. The mESCs (mouse embryonic stem cells) can contribute to both somatic and germinal lineages once re-injected into a recipient embryo at the blastocyst stage. In avian species, chicken embryonic stem cells (cESCs) have been isolated from the in vitro culture of early chicken blastodermal cells (cBCs) taken from stage X embryo (EG&K) These cESCs can be maintained under specific culture conditions and have been characterized on the basis of their morphology, biochemical features, in vitro differentiation potentialities and in vivo morphogenetic properties. The relationship between these cESCs and some of the chicken germ cells identified and grown under specific culture conditions are still under debate, in particular with the identification of the Cvh gene as a key factor for germ cell determination. Moreover, by cloning the avian homologue of the Oct4 mammalian gene, we have demonstrated that this gene, as well as the chicken Nanog gene, was involved in the characterization and maintenance of the chicken pluripotency. These first steps toward the understanding of pluripotency control in a non-mammalian species opens the way for the development and characterization of putative new cell types such as chicken EpiSC and raises the question of the existence of reprogramming in avian species. These different points are discussed.'] 
23880530 Currently the full-text not available Human embryonic stem cell applications for retinal degenerations. Experimental eye research ["Loss of vision in severe retinal degenerations often is a result of photoreceptor cell or retinal pigment epithelial cell death or dysfunction. Cell replacement therapy has the potential to restore useful vision for these individuals especially after they have lost most or all of their light-sensing cells in the eye. A reliable, well-characterized source of retinal cells will be needed for replacement purposes. Human embryonic stem cells (ES cells) can provide an unlimited source of replacement retinal cells to take over the function of lost cells in the eye. The author's intent for this review is to provide an historical overview of the field of embryonic stem cells with relation to the retina. The review will provide a quick primer on key pathways involved in the development of the neural retina and RPE followed by a discussion of the various protocols out in the literature for generating these cells from non-human and human embryonic stem cells and end with in vivo application of ES cell-derived photoreceptors and RPE cells."] 
22238301 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3302301/pdf/ Varicella-zoster virus infects human embryonic stem cell-derived neurons and neurospheres but not pluripotent embryonic stem cells or early progenitors. Journal of virology ['Pluripotent human stem cells are a powerful tool for the generation of differentiated cells that can be used for the study of human disease. We recently demonstrated that neurons derived from pluripotent human embryonic stem cells (hESC) can be infected by the highly host-restricted human alphaherpesvirus varicella-zoster virus (VZV), permitting the interaction of VZV with neurons to be readily evaluated in culture. In the present study, we examine whether pluripotent hESC and neural progenitors at intermediate stages of differentiation are permissive for VZV infection. We demonstrate here that VZV infection is blocked in naïve hESC. A block to VZV replication is also seen when a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) containing the VZV genome is transfected into hESC. In contrast, related alphaherpesviruses herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and pseudorabies virus (PrV) productively infect naïve hESC in a cell-free manner, and PrV replicates from a BAC transfected into hESC. Neurons differentiate from hESC via neural progenitor intermediates, as is the case in the embryo. The first in vitro stage at which permissiveness of hESC-derived neural precursors to VZV replication is observed is upon formation of "neurospheres," immediately after detachment from the inductive stromal feeder layer. These findings suggest that hESC may be useful in deciphering the yet enigmatic mechanisms of specificity of VZV infection and replication.'] 
25904597 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4482130/pdf/ Embryonic stem cell-derived exosomes promote endogenous repair mechanisms and enhance cardiac function following myocardial infarction. Circulation research [StringElement('Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) hold great promise for cardiac regeneration but are susceptible to various concerns. Recently, salutary effects of stem cells have been connected to exosome secretion. ESCs have the ability to produce exosomes, however, their effect in the context of the heart is unknown.', attributes={'Label': 'RATIONALE', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Determine the effect of ESC-derived exosome for the repair of ischemic myocardium and whether c-kit(+) cardiac progenitor cells (CPCs) function can be enhanced with ESC exosomes.', attributes={'Label': 'OBJECTIVE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('This study demonstrates that mouse ESC-derived exosomes (mES Ex) possess ability to augment function in infarcted hearts. mES Ex enhanced neovascularization, cardiomyocyte survival, and reduced fibrosis post infarction consistent with resurgence of cardiac proliferative response. Importantly, mES Ex augmented CPC survival, proliferation, and cardiac commitment concurrent with increased c-kit(+) CPCs in vivo 8 weeks after in vivo transfer along with formation of bonafide new cardiomyocytes in the ischemic heart. miRNA array revealed significant enrichment of miR290-295 cluster and particularly miR-294 in ESC exosomes. The underlying basis for the beneficial effect of mES Ex was tied to delivery of ESC specific miR-294 to CPCs promoting increased survival, cell cycle progression, and proliferation.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('mES Ex provide a novel cell-free system that uses the immense regenerative power of ES cells while avoiding the risks associated with direct ES or ES-derived cell transplantation and risk of teratomas. ESC exosomes possess cardiac regeneration ability and modulate both cardiomyocyte and CPC-based repair programs in the heart.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
24934406 Currently the full-text not available Embryonic stem cells improve skeletal muscle recovery after extreme atrophy in mice. Muscle & nerve [StringElement('We injected embryonic stem cells into mouse tibialis anterior muscles subjected to botulinum toxin injections as a model for reversible neurogenic atrophy.', attributes={'Label': 'INTRODUCTION', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Muscles were exposed to botulinum toxin for 4 weeks and allowed to recover for up to 6 weeks. At the onset of recovery, a single muscle injection of embryonic stem cells was administered. The myofiber cross-sectional area, single twitch force, peak tetanic force, time-to-peak force, and half-relaxation time were determined.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Although the stem cell injection did not affect the myofiber cross-sectional area gain in recovering muscles, most functional parameters improved significantly compared with those of recovering muscles that did not receive the stem cell injection.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Muscle function recovery was accelerated by embryonic stem cell delivery in this durable neurogenic atrophy model. We conclude that stem cells should be considered a potential therapeutic tool for recovery after extreme skeletal muscle atrophy.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26387180 Currently the full-text not available [The effects of trichloroethylene on cardiac differentiation in human embryonic stem cells and its mechanisms]. Zhongguo ying yong sheng li xue za zhi = Zhongguo yingyong shenglixue zazhi = Chinese journal of applied physiology [StringElement('To explore the effects of trichloroethylene (TCE) on cardiac developmental differentiation in human embryonic stem cells.', attributes={'Label': 'OBJECTIVE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('In this study, based on the human embryonic stem cells in vitro cardiac differentiation assay, we investigated the potential effect of TCE exposure on the cardiac toxicity in embryo development. Human embryonic stem cells were treated with TCE at different concentrations of 100 ppb, 1 ppm, and 10 ppm and dimethyl sulfoxide(DMSO) treated as control. The MTT assay was performed to examine the cytoplasmic toxicity of TCE exposure. The beating percentages were recorded and the expression of cardiac specific gene was evaluated by PCR or flow cytometry. Also, real time PCR was performed to verify the micro array analysis on the expression level changes of genes which were involved in the Ca2+ signal pathways.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Compared with the control group, there was no significant difference in cell viability when cells were treated with TCE at the concentrations of 100 ppb, 1 ppm, and 10 ppm. However, TCE could inhibit the expression of cTnT protein in a concentration-dependant manner. And the most interestingly, TCE significantly inhibited the cardiac differentiation characterized by the decrease beating percentages. Genes involved in Ca2+ signaling pathway were severely disrupted by TCE.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('TCE inhibited the cardiac specific differentiation of human embryonic stem cell and at the meanwhile the genes responsible for Ca2+ signaling pathway were severely disrupted, which could contribute the severe effects of TCE cardiotoxicity.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSION', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
23897760 Currently the full-text not available Enrichment of human embryonic stem cell-derived NKX6.1-expressing pancreatic progenitor cells accelerates the maturation of insulin-secreting cells in vivo. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are considered a potential alternative to cadaveric islets as a source of transplantable cells for treating patients with diabetes. We previously described a differentiation protocol to generate pancreatic progenitor cells from hESCs, composed of mainly pancreatic endoderm (PDX1/NKX6.1-positive), endocrine precursors (NKX2.2/synaptophysin-positive, hormone/NKX6.1-negative), and polyhormonal cells (insulin/glucagon-positive, NKX6.1-negative). However, the relative contributions of NKX6.1-negative versus NKX6.1-positive cell fractions to the maturation of functional β-cells remained unclear. To address this question, we generated two distinct pancreatic progenitor cell populations using modified differentiation protocols. Prior to transplant, both populations contained a high proportion of PDX1-expressing cells (~85%-90%) but were distinguished by their relatively high (~80%) or low (~25%) expression of NKX6.1. NKX6.1-high and NKX6.1-low progenitor populations were transplanted subcutaneously within macroencapsulation devices into diabetic mice. Mice transplanted with NKX6.1-low cells remained hyperglycemic throughout the 5-month post-transplant period whereas diabetes was reversed in NKX6.1-high recipients within 3 months. Fasting human C-peptide levels were similar between groups throughout the study, but only NKX6.1-high grafts displayed robust meal-, glucose- and arginine-responsive insulin secretion as early as 3 months post-transplant. NKX6.1-low recipients displayed elevated fasting glucagon levels. Theracyte devices from both groups contained almost exclusively pancreatic endocrine tissue, but NKX6.1-high grafts contained a greater proportion of insulin-positive and somatostatin-positive cells, whereas NKX6.1-low grafts contained mainly glucagon-expressing cells. Insulin-positive cells in NKX6.1-high, but not NKX6.1-low grafts expressed nuclear MAFA. Collectively, this study demonstrates that a pancreatic endoderm-enriched population can mature into highly functional β-cells with only a minor contribution from the endocrine subpopulation.'] 
24319666 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3849245/pdf/ L-Proline induces a mesenchymal-like invasive program in embryonic stem cells by remodeling H3K9 and H3K36 methylation. Stem cell reports ['Metabolites are emerging as key mediators of crosstalk between metabolic flux, cellular signaling, and epigenetic regulation of cell fate. We found that the nonessential amino acid L-proline (L-Pro) acts as a signaling molecule that promotes the conversion of embryonic stem cells into mesenchymal-like, spindle-shaped, highly motile, invasive pluripotent stem cells. This embryonic-stem-cell-to-mesenchymal-like transition (esMT) is accompanied by a genome-wide remodeling of the H3K9 and H3K36 methylation status. Consistently, L-Pro-induced esMT is fully reversible either after L-Pro withdrawal or by addition of ascorbic acid (vitamin C), which in turn reduces H3K9 and H3K36 methylation, promoting a mesenchymal-like-to-embryonic-stem-cell transition (MesT). These findings suggest that L-Pro, which is produced by proteolytic remodeling of the extracellular matrix, may act as a microenvironmental cue to control stem cell behavior.'] 
24092748 Currently the full-text not available Therapeutic efficacy of human embryonic stem cell-derived endothelial cells in humanized mouse models harboring a human immune system. Arteriosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology [StringElement("Allogeneic transplantation of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) derivatives has the potential to elicit the patient's immune response and lead to graft rejection. Although hESCs and their derivatives have been shown to have advantageous immune properties in vitro, such observations could not be determined experimentally in vivo because of ethical and technical constraints. However, the generation of humanized mice (hu-mice) harboring a human immune system has provided a tool to perform in vivo immunologic studies of human cells and tissues. Using this model, we sought to examine the therapeutic potential of hESC-derived endothelial cells, human embryonic fibroblasts, and cord blood-derived endothelial progenitor cells in a human immune system environment.", attributes={'Label': 'OBJECTIVE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('All cell types transplanted in hu-mice showed significantly reduced cell survival during the first 14 days post-transplantation compared with that observed in immunodeficient mice. During this period, no observable therapeutic effects were detected in the hindlimb ischemic mouse models. After this point, the cells demonstrated improved survival and contributed to a long-term improvement in blood perfusion. All cell types showed reduced therapeutic efficacy in hu-mice compared with NOD scid IL2 receptor gamma chain knockout mice. Interestingly, the eventual improvement in blood flow caused by the hESC-derived endothelial cells in hu-mice was not much lower than that observed in NOD scid IL2 receptor gamma chain knockout mice.', attributes={'Label': 'APPROACH AND RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('These findings suggest that hESC derivatives may be considered a good source for cell therapy and that hu-mice could be used as a preclinical in vivo animal model for the evaluation of therapeutic efficacy to predict the outcomes of human clinical trials.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26553210 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4640237/pdf/ Transplantation of rat embryonic stem cell-derived retinal progenitor cells preserves the retinal structure and function in rat retinal degeneration. Stem cell research & therapy [StringElement('Degenerative retinal diseases like age-related macular degeneration (AMD) are the leading cause of blindness. Cell transplantation showed promising therapeutic effect for such diseases, and embryonic stem cell (ESC) is one of the sources of such donor cells. Here, we aimed to generate retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) from rat ESCs (rESCs) and to test their therapeutic effects in rat model.', attributes={'Label': 'INTRODUCTION', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('The rESCs (DA8-16) were cultured in N2B27 medium with 2i, and differentiated to two types of RPCs following the SFEBq method with modifications. For rESC-RPC1, the cells were switched to adherent culture at D10, while for rESC-RPC2, the suspension culture was maintained to D14. Both RPCs were harvested at D16. Primary RPCs were obtained from P1 SD rats, and some of them were labeled with EGFP by infection with lentivirus. To generate Rax::EGFP knock-in rESC lines, TALENs were engineered to facilitate homologous recombination in rESCs, which were cotransfected with the targeting vector and TALEN vectors. The differentiated cells were analyzed with live image, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometric analysis, gene expression microarray, etc. RCS rats were used to mimic the degeneration of retina and test the therapeutic effects of subretinally transplanted donor cells. The structure and function of retina were examined.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('We established two protocols through which two types of rESC-derived RPCs were obtained and both contained committed retina lineage cells and some neural progenitor cells (NPCs). These rESC-derived RPCs survived in the host retinas of RCS rats and protected the retinal structure and function in early stage following the transplantation. However, the glia enriched rESC-RPC1 obtained through early and longer adherent culture only increased the b-wave amplitude at 4 weeks, while the longer suspension culture gave rise to evidently neuronal differentiation in rESC-RPC2 which significantly improved the visual function of RCS rats.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We have successfully differentiated rESCs to glia enriched RPCs and retinal neuron enriched RPCs in vitro. The retinal neuron enriched rESC-RPC2 protected the structure and function of retina in rats with genetic retinal degeneration and could be a candidate cell source for treating some degenerative retinal diseases in human trials.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
22735451 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3518406/pdf/ Trim71 cooperates with microRNAs to repress Cdkn1a expression and promote embryonic stem cell proliferation. Nature communications ['Pluripotent embryonic stem cells have a shortened cell cycle that enables their rapid proliferation. The embryonic stem cell-specific miR-290 and miR-302 microRNA families promote proliferation whereas let-7 microRNAs inhibit self-renewal, and promote cell differentiation. Lin28 suppresses let-7 expression in embryonic stem cells. Here to gain further insight into mechanisms controlling embryonic stem cell self-renewal, we explore the molecular and cellular role of the let-7 target Trim71 (mLin41). We show that Trim71 associates with Argonaute2 and microRNAs, and represses expression of Cdkn1a, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that negatively regulates the G1-S transition. We identify protein domains required for Trim71 association with Argonaute2, localization to P-bodies, and for repression of reporter messenger RNAs. Trim71 knockdown prolongs the G1 phase of the cell cycle and slows embryonic stem cell proliferation, a phenotype that was rescued by depletion of Cdkn1a. Thus, we demonstrate that Trim71 is a factor that facilitates the G1-S transition to promote rapid embryonic stem cell self-renewal.'] 
25871791 Currently the full-text not available Exogenous treatment with eicosapentaenoic acid supports maturation of cardiomyocytes derived from embryonic stem cells. Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Embryonic stem cells offer multiple advantages over adult stem cells in terms of achieving acceptable number of functional cardiomyocytes to be exploited in cell therapy. However, differentiation efficacy is still a major issue to be solved before moving to regenerative medicine. Although a vast number of chemical compounds have been tested on efficiency of cardiac differentiation, the effect of fish oil components, such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on developmental bioenergetics, and hence cardiac differentiation, remained unstudied. EPA has been reported to have several cardioprotective effects, but there is no study addressing its role in cardiac differentiation. After mesoderm induction of embryoid bodies (EBs) derived from mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) in hanging drops initiated by ascorbic acid, they were treated with various concentrations of EPA. Gene and protein expression and functional properties of cardiomyocytes derived from ESCs were evaluated following treatment with various concentrations of EPA. Exposure to low concentrations of EPA (10\xa0μM) increased percentage of beating colonies and beating area. This treatment also resulted in up to 3 fold increase in expression of NKX2-5, MEF2C, MYH6, TNNT2 and CX43. FACS analysis confirmed gene expression analysis with increased percentage of MYH6 positive cells in EPA-treated group compared to the control group. In contrast, the expression of genes coding for cardiac differentiation, remained constant or even declined with higher concentrations of EPA. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that treatment of mESCs undergoing cardiac differentiation with low concentration, but not high concentration of EPA up-regulate transcription of genes associated with cardiac development.'] 
23460275 Currently the full-text not available The use of human amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells as the feeder layer to establish human embryonic stem cell lines. Journal of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are pluripotent cells that have the potential to differentiate into the three germ layers and possibly all tissues of the human body. To fulfil the clinical potentials for cell-based therapy, banks of hESC lines that express different combinations of the major histocompatibility genes should be established, preferably without exposing such cells to animal cells and proteins. In this study, we tested human amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells (AFMSCs) as feeder cells to support the growth of hESCs. Our results indicated that mitomycin-treated AFMSCs were able to support the newly established hESC lines CGLK-1 and CGLK-2. The hESC colonies cultured on AFMSCs expressed alkaline phosphatase (ALK-P), SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81, Oct-4, Nanog and Sox-2, which are markers for undifferentiated hESCs. Chromosomal analyses of both hESC lines, CGLK-1 and CGLK-2, which were cultured on AFMSC feeders for 22 and 14 passages, respectively, were confirmed to be normal karyotypes (46, XX). The ability of AFMSCs as feeder cells to maintain the undifferentiated growth and pluripotency of hESCs was confirmed by in vivo formation of teratomas derived on AFMSC hESCs in severe combined immune-compromised mice. The use of AFMSCs for feeder cells to culture hESCs has several advantages, in that AFMSCs are not tumourigenic and can be expanded extensively with a short doubling time.'] 
23928330 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3854684/pdf/ Highly efficient differentiation of neural precursors from human embryonic stem cells and benefits of transplantation after ischemic stroke in mice. Stem cell research & therapy [StringElement('Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of death and disability, but treatment options are severely limited. Cell therapy offers an attractive strategy for regenerating lost tissues and enhancing the endogenous healing process. In this study, we investigated the use of human embryonic stem cell-derived neural precursors as a cell therapy in a murine stroke model.', attributes={'Label': 'INTRODUCTION', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Neural precursors were derived from human embryonic stem cells by using a fully adherent SMAD inhibition protocol employing small molecules. The efficiency of neural induction and the ability of these cells to further differentiate into neurons were assessed by using immunocytochemistry. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording was used to demonstrate the electrophysiological activity of human embryonic stem cell-derived neurons. Neural precursors were transplanted into the core and penumbra regions of a focal ischemic stroke in the barrel cortex of mice. Animals received injections of bromodeoxyuridine to track regeneration. Neural differentiation of the transplanted cells and regenerative markers were measured by using immunohistochemistry. The adhesive removal test was used to determine functional improvement after stroke and intervention.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('After 11 days of neural induction by using the small-molecule protocol, over 95% of human embryonic stem-derived cells expressed at least one neural marker. Further in vitro differentiation yielded cells that stained for mature neuronal markers and exhibited high-amplitude, repetitive action potentials in response to depolarization. Neuronal differentiation also occurred after transplantation into the ischemic cortex. A greater level of bromodeoxyuridine co-localization with neurons was observed in the penumbra region of animals receiving cell transplantation. Transplantation also improved sensory recovery in transplant animals over that in control animals.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Human embryonic stem cell-derived neural precursors derived by using a highly efficient small-molecule SMAD inhibition protocol can differentiate into electrophysiologically functional neurons in vitro. These cells also differentiate into neurons in vivo, enhance regenerative activities, and improve sensory recovery after ischemic stroke.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26923312 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4774574/pdf/ Human Embryonic Stem Cell Therapy in Crohn's Disease: A Case Report. The American journal of case reports [StringElement("Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestines, mainly the colon and ileum, related with ulcers and fistulae. It is estimated to affect 565,000 people in the United States. Currently available therapies, such as antibiotics, thiopurines, and anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha agents, are only observed to reduce the complications associated with Crohn's disease and to improve quality of life, but cannot cure the disease. Stem cell therapy appears to have certain advantages over conventional therapies. Our study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of human embryonic stem cell therapy in a patient with Crohn's disease.", attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('A 21-year-old male with chief complaints of intolerance to specific foods, abdominal pain, and diarrhea underwent human embryonic stem cell therapy for two months. After undergoing human embryonic stem cell therapy, the patient showed symptomatic relief. He had no complaints of back pain, abdominal pain, or diarrhea and had improved digestion. The patient had no signs and symptoms of skin infection, and had improved limb stamina, strength, and endurance. The condition of patient was stable after the therapy.', attributes={'Label': 'CASE REPORT', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement("Human embryonic stem cell therapy might serve as a new optimistic treatment approach for Crohn's disease.", attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26066567 Currently the full-text not available Human embryonic stem cell-derived pancreatic endoderm alleviates diabetic pathology and improves reproductive outcome in C57BL/KsJ-Lep(db/+) gestational diabetes mellitus mice. Nutrition research (New York, N.Y.) ['Gestational diabetes mellitus is a condition commonly encountered during mid to late pregnancy with pathologic manifestations including hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, and fetal maldevelopment. The cause of gestational diabetes mellitus can be attributed to both genetic and environmental factors, hence complicating its diagnosis and treatment. Pancreatic progenitors derived from human embryonic stem cells were shown to be able to effectively treat diabetes in mice. In this study, we have developed a system of treating diabetes using human embryonic stem cell-derived pancreatic endoderm in a mouse model of gestational diabetes mellitus. Human embryonic stem cells were differentiated in vitro into pancreatic endoderm, which were then transplanted into db/+ mice suffering from gestational diabetes mellitus. The transplant greatly improved glucose metabolism and reproductive outcome of the females compared with the control groups. Our findings support the feasibility of using differentiated human embryonic stem cells for treating gestational diabetes mellitus patients.'] 
24807816 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4235940/pdf/ Effects of different feeder layers on culture of bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells in vitro. Cytotechnology ['To find a suitable feeder layer is important for successful culture conditions of bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells. In this study, expression of pluripotency-related genes OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG in bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells on mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers at 1-5 passages were monitored in order to identify the possible reason that bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells could not continue growth and passage. Here, we developed two novel feeder layers, mixed embryonic fibroblast feeder layers of mouse and bovine embryonic fibroblast at different ratios and sources including mouse fibroblast cell lines. The bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells generated in our study displayed typical stem cell morphology and expressed specific markers such as OCT4, stage-specific embryonic antigen 1 and 4, alkaline phosphatase, SOX2, and NANOG mRNA levels. When feeder layers and cell growth factors were removed, the bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells formed embryoid bodies in a suspension culture. Furthermore, we compared the expression of the pluripotent markers during bovine embryonic stem cell-like cell in culture on mixed embryonic fibroblast feeder layers, including mouse fibroblast cell lines feeder layers and mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Results suggested that mixed embryonic fibroblast and sources including mouse fibroblast cell lines feeder layers were more suitable for long-term culture and growth of bovine embryonic stem cell-like cells than mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers. The findings may provide useful experimental data for the establishment of an appropriate culture system for bovine embryonic stem cell lines.'] 
24321709 Currently the full-text not available The effects of artificial E-cadherin matrix-induced embryonic stem cell scattering on paxillin and RhoA activation via α-catenin. Biomaterials ['Mechanical forces have been shown to affect stem cell behavior in a large array of ways. However, our understanding of how these mechanical cues may regulate the behavior of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) remains in its infancy. Here, we aim to clarify the effect of cell scattering on the regulation of Rho family GTPases Rac1 and RhoA as well as paxillin. Allowing ESCs to spread and scatter on a synthetically designed E-cadherin substratum causes phosphorylation of paxillin on consensus phosphorylation sites leading to activation of Rac1 and inactivation of RhoA. By culturing cells in presence of RhoA activator or growing cells to a highly confluent state reverses the effect of cell scattering phenotype. Knockdown of E-cadherin-adapter protein α-catenin revealed that it negatively affects paxillin phosphorylation and up-regulates RhoA activity in compact cellular aggregates. Collectively these results indicate that cell scattering might cause a conformational change of α-catenin limiting its capacity to inhibit paxillin phosphorylation that causes an increase in Rac1 activation and RhoA deactivation. Understanding how synthetically designed extracellular matrix affect ESC signaling through mechanical cues brings a new aspect for stem cell engineers to develop technologies for controlling cell function.'] 
26613412 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4721963/pdf/ The CUL4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex controls adult and embryonic stem cell differentiation and homeostasis. eLife ['Little is known on post-transcriptional regulation of adult and embryonic stem cell maintenance and differentiation. Here we characterize the role of Ddb1, a component of the CUL4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex. Ddb1 is highly expressed in multipotent hematopoietic progenitors and its deletion leads to abrogation of both adult and fetal hematopoiesis, targeting specifically transiently amplifying progenitor subsets. However, Ddb1 deletion in non-dividing lymphocytes has no discernible phenotypes. Ddb1 silencing activates Trp53 pathway and leads to significant effects on cell cycle progression and rapid apoptosis. The abrogation of hematopoietic progenitor cells can be partially rescued by simultaneous deletion of Trp53. Conversely, depletion of DDB1 in embryonic stem cell (ESC) leads to differentiation albeit negative effects on cell cycle and apoptosis. Mass spectrometry reveals differing protein interactions between DDB1 and distinct DCAFs, the substrate recognizing components of the E3 complex, between cell types. Our studies identify CUL4-DDB1 complex as a novel post-translational regulator of stem and progenitor maintenance and differentiation.'] 
25670856 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4423675/pdf/ Activin/nodal signaling switches the terminal fate of human embryonic stem cell-derived trophoblasts. The Journal of biological chemistry ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have been routinely treated with bone morphogenetic protein and/or inhibitors of activin/nodal signaling to obtain cells that express trophoblast markers. Trophoblasts can terminally differentiate to either extravillous trophoblasts or syncytiotrophoblasts. The signaling pathways that govern the terminal fate of these trophoblasts are not understood. We show that activin/nodal signaling switches the terminal fate of these hESC-derived trophoblasts. Inhibition of activin/nodal signaling leads to formation of extravillous trophoblast, whereas loss of activin/nodal inhibition leads to the formation of syncytiotrophoblasts. Also, the ability of hESCs to form bona fide trophoblasts has been intensely debated. We have examined hESC-derived trophoblasts in the light of stringent criteria that were proposed recently, such as hypomethylation of the ELF5-2b promoter region and down-regulation of HLA class I antigens. We report that trophoblasts that possess these properties can indeed be obtained from hESCs.'] 
24397998 Currently the full-text not available Fate of D3 mouse embryonic stem cells exposed to X-rays or carbon ions. Mutation research. Genetic toxicology and environmental mutagenesis ['The risk of radiation exposure during embryonic development is still a major problem in radiotoxicology. In this study we investigated the response of the murine embryonic stem cell (mESC) line D3 to two radiation qualities: sparsely ionizing X-rays and densely ionizing carbon ions. We analyzed clonogenic cell survival, proliferation, induction of chromosome aberrations as well as the capability of cells to differentiate to beating cardiomyocytes up to 3 days after exposure. Our results show that, for all endpoints investigated, carbon ions are more effective than X-rays at the same radiation dose. Additionally, in long term studies (≥8 days post-irradiation) chromosomal damage and the pluripotency state were investigated. These studies reveal that pluripotency markers are present in the progeny of cells surviving the exposure to both radiation types. However, only in the progeny of X-ray exposed cells the aberration frequency was comparable to that of the control population, while the progeny of carbon ion irradiated cells harbored significantly more aberrations than the control, generally translocations. We conclude that cells surviving the radiation exposure maintain pluripotency but may carry stable chromosomal rearrangements after densely ionizing radiation.'] 
24384367 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3992893/pdf/ Rationally optimized cryopreservation of multiple mouse embryonic stem cell lines: I--Comparative fundamental cryobiology of multiple mouse embryonic stem cell lines and the implications for embryonic stem cell cryopreservation protocols. Cryobiology ['The post-thaw recovery of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) is often assumed to be adequate with current methods. However as this publication will show, this recovery of viable cells actually varies significantly by genetic background. Therefore there is a need to improve the efficiency and reduce the variability of current mESC cryopreservation methods. To address this need, we employed the principles of fundamental cryobiology to improve the cryopreservation protocol of four mESC lines from different genetic backgrounds (BALB/c, CBA, FVB, and 129R1 mESCs) through a comparative study characterizing the membrane permeability characteristics and membrane integrity osmotic tolerance limits of each cell line. In the companion paper, these values were used to predict optimal cryoprotectants, cooling rates, warming rates, and plunge temperatures, and then these predicted optimal protocols were validated against standard freezing protocols.'] 
26239820 Currently the full-text not available Identification of embryonic stem cell activities in an embryonic cell line derived from marine medaka (Oryzias dancena). Fish physiology and biochemistry ['This study was conducted to identify embryonic stem cell (ESC) activities of a long-term cultured embryonic cell line previously derived from blastula-stage Oryzias dancena embryos. Five sub-cell lines were established from the embryonic cell line via clonal expansion of single cells. ESC activities, including clonogenicity, alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity, and differentiation capacity, were examined in the five sub-cell lines. We observed both clonogenicity and AP activity in all five sub-cell lines, but the proportion of cells that exhibited both properties was significantly different among them. Even though we detected different formation rates and sizes of embryoid body (EB) among these cells, all lines were stably able to form EBs and further induction for differentiation showed their capability to differentiate into other cell types in a spontaneous manner. From this study, we determined that the embryonic cell lines examined possessed heterogeneous ESC activities and can be utilized as a marine model system for fish ESC-based research.'] 
24332066 Currently the full-text not available Activation of protein kinase C delta by ψδRACK peptide promotes embryonic stem cell proliferation through ERK 1/2. Journal of proteomics [StringElement('The protein kinase C (PKC) family of serine/threonine kinases participate in embryonic stem cell (ESC) proliferation/self-renewal. A few stimuli that induce ESC proliferation activate several PKC isoenzymes including δPKC, however, the role of this isoenzyme under basal conditions that maintain undifferentiated ESCs remains to be determined. Herewith, we aimed to characterize signaling events that occur in undifferentiated ESCs upon δPKC activation. Using phosphoproteomics and a δPKC specific activator peptide, ψδRACK, it was seen that the majority of proteins whose phosphorylation increased upon δPKC activation participate in cell proliferation. Network analysis of these proteins directly connected δPKC to Raf1 and 14-3-3. Experimental validation studies showed that activation of δPKC increased its binding to 14-3-3, transiently activated ERK1/2 and increased ESC proliferation. Independently inhibiting MEK or PI3 kinase both led to a decrease in proliferation of approximately 50%, but δPKC activation only recovered the effect of PI3 kinase inhibition suggesting that ERK1/2 activation via δPKC is probably a parallel pathway to PI3 kinase and that both pathways are necessary for undifferentiated ESC proliferation.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('The use of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells for regenerative therapies is still a challenge. Understanding the underlying mechanisms that keep these cells proliferating with the ability to differentiate in more than 200 cell types (self-renewal) will aid in the future use of these cells therapeutically. Using a targeted phosphoproteomics study, insights into signaling pathways involved in ESC proliferation can be obtained. Modulating these pathways will aid the obtention of a larger number of self-renewing stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells that can be used therapeutically.', attributes={'Label': 'BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26577380 Currently the full-text not available Identification of Small Molecules Which Induce Skeletal Muscle Differentiation in Embryonic Stem Cells via Activation of the Wnt and Inhibition of Smad2/3 and Sonic Hedgehog Pathways. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['The multilineage differentiation capacity of mouse and human embryonic stem (ES) cells offers a testing platform for small molecules that mediate mammalian lineage determination and cellular specialization. Here we report the identification of two small molecules which drives mouse 129 ES cell differentiation to skeletal muscle with high efficiency without any genetic modification. Mouse embryoid bodies (EBs) were used to screen a library of 1,000 small molecules to identify compounds capable of inducing high levels of Pax3 mRNA. Stimulation of EBs with SMIs (skeletal muscle inducer, SMI1 and SMI2) from the screen resulted in a high percentage of intensively twitching skeletal muscle fibers 3 weeks after induction. Gene expression profiling studies that were carried out for mode of actions analysis showed that SMIs activated genes regulated by the Wnt pathway and inhibited expression of Smad2/3 and Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) target genes. A combination of three small molecules known to modulate these three pathways acted similarly to the SMIs found here, driving ES cells from 129 as well as Balb/c and C57Bl/6 to skeletal muscle. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the SMI drives ES cells to skeletal muscle via concerted activation of the Wnt pathway, and inhibition of Smad2/3 signaling and Shh pathways. This provides important developmental biological information about skeletal muscle differentiation from embryonic stem cells and may lead to the development of new therapeutics for muscle disease.'] 
25205822 Currently the full-text not available Composition and function of macroencapsulated human embryonic stem cell-derived implants: comparison with clinical human islet cell grafts. American journal of physiology. Endocrinology and metabolism ['β-Cells generated from large-scale sources can overcome current shortages in clinical islet cell grafts provided that they adequately respond to metabolic variations. Pancreatic (non)endocrine cells can develop from human embryonic stem (huES) cells following in vitro derivation to pancreatic endoderm (PE) that is subsequently implanted in immune-incompetent mice for further differentiation. Encapsulation of PE increases the proportion of endocrine cells in subcutaneous implants, with enrichment in β-cells when they are placed in TheraCyte-macrodevices and predominantly α-cells when they are alginate-microencapsulated. At posttransplant (PT) weeks 20-30, macroencapsulated huES implants presented higher glucose-responsive plasma C-peptide levels and a lower proinsulin-over-C-peptide ratio than human islet cell implants under the kidney capsule. Their ex vivo analysis showed the presence of single-hormone-positive α- and β-cells that exhibited rapid secretory responses to increasing and decreasing glucose concentrations, similar to isolated human islet cells. However, their insulin secretory amplitude was lower, which was attributed in part to a lower cellular hormone content; it was associated with a lower glucose-induced insulin biosynthesis, but not with lower glucagon-induced stimulation, which together is compatible with an immature functional state of the huES-derived β-cells at PT weeks 20-30. These data support the therapeutic potential of macroencapsulated huES implants but indicate the need for further functional analysis. Their comparison with clinical-grade human islet cell grafts sets references for future development and clinical translation.'] 
26773463 Currently the full-text not available Long-term, feeder-free maintenance of human embryonic stem cells by mussel-inspired adhesive heparin and collagen type I. Acta biomaterialia [StringElement("For practical applications of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) in regenerative medicine, hESCs should be cultured on a large scale, and at the same time their properties have to be maintained in a controllable manner. Here, we report a chemically defined, scalable culture platform involving co-immobilization of heparin-catechol (HepC) and collagen type-1 (Col) for the long-term maintenance (>18 passages) of hESCs in a feeder-free condition. This platform utilizes a wet-adhesive, mussel-inspired heparin-catechol conjugate as a key component. We hypothesized that the heparin's affinity toward a wide range of proteins, might support undifferentiated in vitro growth of hESC. In fact, on the HepC-coated substrate, most hESC clumps were adhered (∼78% at passage 2 (P2)) and expressed pluripotency markers (Fig. 2). Although HepC alone wasn't able to support long-term maintenance of hESCs in a feeder-free system due to decrease in the adhesion rate of hESCs on HepC coating (∼ 44% at P4) during the repeated passaging processes, we found that when collagen type I was co-immobilized in the process of HepC coating, the long-term maintenance (passage 18 or more) of hESCs could be achieved with 100% adhesion efficiency (Fig. 4). One remarkable observation is that hESCs on collagen type-I underwent spontaneous differentiation after P6 (Fig. 3), which implied co-immobilized HepC played a role to suppress differentiation of hESCs. This study suggests that unlike the previous studies using proteins, peptides, or synthetic polymers, a polysaccharide, heparin, can be used as a cost-effective component for chemically defined, feeder-free culture of hESC.", attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Towards practical applications of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) in regenerative medicine, hESCs should be cultured on a large scale, and their pluripotent property has to be maintained in a controllable manner. To address these issues, studies that develop chemically defined culture substrates have been explored to replace the widely used, complex, and undefined culture materials represented by Matrigel. Most reports have focused on utilizing proteins, peptides and/or synthetic polymers. However, there have not yet been studies on using polysaccharides as two-dimensional coating materials to potentially replace Matrigel coating. Here, we report that heparin is an effective polysaccharide for the feeder-free, two dimensional culture of hESCs. Our study implies that use of polysaccharides or a polysaccharide/ECM combination can be a new, alternative design principle for hESC culture systems.', attributes={'Label': 'STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25863786 Currently the full-text not available Maintenance, Transgene Delivery, and Pluripotency Measurement of Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells. Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.) ['This chapter describes standard techniques to (1) maintain mouse embryonic stem cell culture, (2) deliver transgenes into mouse embryonic stem cells mediated by electroporation, nucleofection, lipofection, and retro/lentiviruses, and (3) assess the pluripotency of mouse embryonic stem cells. The last part of this chapter presents induction of random cell differentiation followed by the alkaline phosphatase and embryoid body formation assays, immunofluorescence microscopy, and the teratoma formation assay.'] 
24768681 Currently the full-text not available Retinoic acid signaling and mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation: Cross talk between genomic and non-genomic effects of RA. Biochimica et biophysica acta ["Retinoic acid (RA), the active derivative of vitamin A, a fat-soluble vitamin, plays key roles in cell growth and differentiation by activating nuclear receptors, RARs (α, β and γ), which are ligand dependent regulators of transcription. The past years highlighted several novelties in the field that increased the complexity of RA effects. Indeed, in addition to its classical genomic effects, RA also has extranuclear and non-transcriptional effects. RA induces the rapid and transient activation of kinase cascades, which are integrated in the nucleus via the phosphorylation of RARs at a conserved serine residue located in the N-terminal domain and their coregulators. In order to investigate the relevance of RARs' phosphorylation in cell differentiation, mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells were used as a model. When treated with RA, these pluripotent cells give rise to neuronal cells. Cells invalidated for each RAR were generated as well as stable rescue lines expressing RARs mutated in phosphor acceptor sites. Such a strategy revealed that RA-induced neuronal differentiation involves the RARγ2 subtype and requires RARγ2 phosphorylation. Moreover, in gene expression profiling experiments, the phosphorylated form of RARγ2 was found to regulate a small subset of genes through binding a novel RA response element consisting of two direct repeats with a 7 base pair spacer. These new findings suggest an important role for RAR phosphorylation during cell differentiation, and pave the way for further investigations with other cell types and during embryonic development. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Linking transcription to physiology in lipodomics."] 
24756727 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4388243/pdf/ Potential for cell therapy in Parkinson's disease using genetically programmed human embryonic stem cell-derived neural progenitor cells. The Journal of comparative neurology ["Neural transplantation is a promising strategy for restoring dopaminergic dysfunction and modifying disease progression in Parkinson's disease (PD). Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are a potential resource in this regard because of their ability to provide a virtually limitless supply of homogenous dopaminergic progenitors and neurons of appropriate lineage. The recent advances in developing robust cell culture protocols for directed differentiation of hESCs to near pure populations of ventral mesencephalic (A9-type) dopaminergic neurons has heightened the prospects for PD cell therapy. Here, we focus our review on current state-of-the-art techniques for harnessing hESC-based strategies toward development of a stem cell therapeutic for PD. Importantly, we also briefly describe a novel genetic-programming approach that may address many of the key challenges that remain in the field and that may hasten clinical translation."] 
24347171 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3931039/pdf/ The death-inducer obliterator 1 (Dido1) gene regulates embryonic stem cell self-renewal. The Journal of biological chemistry ['The regulatory network of factors that center on master transcription factors such as Oct4, Nanog, and Sox2 help maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells and ensure their pluripotency. The target genes of these master transcription factors define the ES cell transcriptional landscape. In this study, we report our findings that Dido1, a target of canonical transcription factors such as Oct4, Sox2, and Nanog, plays an important role in regulating ES cell maintenance. We found that depletion of Dido1 in mouse ES cells led to differentiation, and ectopic expression of Dido1 inhibited differentiation induced by leukemia inhibitory factor withdrawal. We further demonstrated that whereas Nanog and Oct4 could occupy the Dido1 locus and promote its transcription, Dido1 could also target to the loci of pluripotency factors such as Nanog and Oct4 and positively regulate their expression. Through this feedback and feedforward loop, Dido1 is able to regulate self-renewal of mouse ES cells.'] 
24217388 Currently the full-text not available Gain of 20q11.21 in human embryonic stem cells improves cell survival by increased expression of Bcl-xL. Molecular human reproduction ['Gain of 20q11.21 is a chromosomal abnormality that is recurrently found in human pluripotent stem cells and cancers, strongly suggesting that this mutation confers a proliferative or survival advantage to these cells. In this work we studied three human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines that acquired a gain of 20q11.21 during in vitro culture. The study of the mRNA gene expression levels of the loci located in the common region of duplication showed that HM13, ID1, BCL2L1, KIF3B and the immature form of the micro-RNA miR-1825 were up-regulated in mutant cells. ID1 and BCL2L1 were further studied as potential drivers of the phenotype of hESC with a 20q11.21 gain. We found no increase in the protein levels of ID1, nor the downstream effects expected from over-expression of this gene. On the other hand, hESC with a gain of 20q11.21 had on average a 3-fold increase of Bcl-xL (the anti-apoptotic isoform of BCL2L1) protein levels. The mutant hESC underwent 2- to 3-fold less apoptosis upon loss of cell-to-cell contact and were ∼2-fold more efficient in forming colonies from a single cell. The key role of BCL2L1 in this mutation was further confirmed by transgenic over-expression of BCL2L1 in the wild-type cells, leading to apoptosis-resistant cells, and BCL2L1-knock-down in the mutant hESC, resulting in a restoration of the wild-type phenotype. This resistance to apoptosis supposes a significant advantage for the mutant cells, explaining the high frequency of gains of 20q11.21 in human pluripotent stem cells.'] 
22713752 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3564597/pdf/ Histone modifications and lamin A regulate chromatin protein dynamics in early embryonic stem cell differentiation. Nature communications ["Embryonic stem cells are characterized by unique epigenetic features including decondensed chromatin and hyperdynamic association of chromatin proteins with chromatin. Here we investigate the potential mechanisms that regulate chromatin plasticity in embryonic stem cells. Using epigenetic drugs and mutant embryonic stem cells lacking various chromatin proteins, we find that histone acetylation, G9a-mediated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methylation and lamin A expression, all affect chromatin protein dynamics. Histone acetylation controls, almost exclusively, euchromatin protein dynamics; lamin A expression regulates heterochromatin protein dynamics, and G9a regulates both euchromatin and heterochromatin protein dynamics. In contrast, we find that DNA methylation and nucleosome repeat length have little or no effect on chromatin-binding protein dynamics in embryonic stem cells. Altered chromatin dynamics associates with perturbed embryonic stem cell differentiation. Together, these data provide mechanistic insights into the epigenetic pathways that are responsible for chromatin plasticity in embryonic stem cells, and indicate that the genome's epigenetic state modulates chromatin plasticity and differentiation potential of embryonic stem cells."] 
22768254 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3387134/pdf/ 14-3-3σ regulates β-catenin-mediated mouse embryonic stem cell proliferation by sequestering GSK-3β. PloS one [StringElement('Pluripotent embryonic stem cells are considered to be an unlimited cell source for tissue regeneration and cell-based therapy. Investigating the molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of embryonic stem cell expansion is thus important. 14-3-3 proteins are implicated in controlling cell division, signaling transduction and survival by interacting with various regulatory proteins. However, the function of 14-3-3 in embryonic stem cell proliferation remains unclear.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('In this study, we show that all seven 14-3-3 isoforms were detected in mouse embryonic stem cells. Retinoid acid suppressed selectively the expression of 14-3-3σ isoform. Knockdown of 14-3-3σ with siRNA reduced embryonic stem cell proliferation, while only 14-3-3σ transfection increased cell growth and partially rescued retinoid acid-induced growth arrest. Since the growth-enhancing action of 14-3-3σ was abrogated by β-catenin knockdown, we investigated the influence of 14-3-3σ overexpression on β-catenin/GSK-3β. 14-3-3σ bound GSK-3β and increased GSK-3β phosphorylation in a PI-3K/Akt-dependent manner. It disrupted β-catenin binding by the multiprotein destruction complex. 14-3-3σ overexpression attenuated β-catenin phosphorylation and rescued the decline of β-catenin induced by retinoid acid. Furthermore, 14-3-3σ enhanced Wnt3a-induced β-catenin level and GSK-3β phosphorylation. DKK, an inhibitor of Wnt signaling, abolished Wnt3a-induced effect but did not interfere GSK-3β/14-3-3σ binding.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Our findings show for the first time that 14-3-3σ plays an important role in regulating mouse embryonic stem cell proliferation by binding and sequestering phosphorylated GSK-3β and enhancing Wnt-signaled GSK-3β inactivation. 14-3-3σ is a novel target for embryonic stem cell expansion.', attributes={'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25350134 Currently the full-text not available Retroviral infection of murine embryonic stem cell derived embryoid body cells for analysis of hematopoietic differentiation. Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE ['Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are an outstanding model for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of cellular differentiation. They are especially useful for investigating the development of early hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs). Gene expression in ESCs can be manipulated by several techniques that allow the role for individual molecules in development to be determined. One difficulty is that expression of specific genes often has different phenotypic effects dependent on their temporal expression. This problem can be circumvented by the generation of ESCs that inducibly express a gene of interest using technology such as the doxycycline-inducible transgene system. However, generation of these inducible cell lines is costly and time consuming. Described here is a method for disaggregating ESC-derived embryoid bodies (EBs) into single cell suspensions, retrovirally infecting the cell suspensions, and then reforming the EBs by hanging drop. Downstream differentiation is then evaluated by flow cytometry. Using this protocol, it was demonstrated that exogenous expression of a microRNA gene at the beginning of ESC differentiation blocks HPC generation. However, when expressed in EB derived cells after nascent mesoderm is produced, the microRNA gene enhances hematopoietic differentiation. This method is useful for investigating the role of genes after specific germ layer tissue is derived.'] 
23940003 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3923867/pdf/ Generation and characterization of spiking and nonspiking oligodendroglial progenitor cells from embryonic stem cells. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) have been differentiated into oligodendroglial progenitor cells (OPCs), providing promising cell replacement therapies for many central nervous system disorders. Studies from rodents have shown that brain OPCs express a variety of ion channels, and that a subset of brain OPCs express voltage-gated sodium channel (NaV ), mediating the spiking properties of OPCs. However, it is unclear whether PSC-derived OPCs exhibit electrophysiological properties similar to brain OPCs and the role of NaV in the functional maturation of OPCs is unknown. Here, using a mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) green fluorescent protein (GFP)-Olig2 knockin reporter line, we demonstrated that unlike brain OPCs, all the GFP(+) /Olig2(+) mESC-derived OPCs (mESC-OPCs) did not express functional NaV and failed to generate spikes (hence termed "nonspiking mESC-OPCs"), while expressing the delayed rectifier and inactivating potassium currents. By ectopically expressing NaV 1.2 α subunit via viral transduction, we successfully generated mESC-OPCs with spiking properties (termed "spiking mESC-OPCs"). After transplantation into the spinal cord and brain of myelin-deficient shiverer mice, the spiking mESC-OPCs demonstrated better capability in differentiating into myelin basic protein expressing oligodendrocytes and in myelinating axons in vivo than the nonspiking mESC-OPCs. Thus, by generating spiking and nonspiking mESC-OPCs, this study reveals a novel function of NaV in OPCs in their functional maturation and myelination, and sheds new light on ways to effectively develop PSC-derived OPCs for future clinical applications.'] 
24805944 Currently the full-text not available sRNA-seq analysis of human embryonic stem cells and definitive endoderm reveals differentially expressed microRNAs and novel IsomiRs with distinct targets. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding, regulatory RNAs expressed dynamically during differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into defined lineages. Mapping developmental expression of miRNAs during transition from pluripotency to definitive endoderm (DE) should help to elucidate the mechanisms underlying lineage specification and ultimately enhance differentiation protocols. In this report, next generation sequencing was used to build upon our previous analysis of miRNA expression in human hESCs and DE. From millions of sequencing reads, 747 and 734 annotated miRNAs were identified in pluripotent and DE cells, respectively, including 77 differentially expressed miRNAs. Among these, four of the top five upregulated miRNAs were previously undetected in DE. Furthermore, the stem-loop for miR-302a, an important miRNA for both hESCs self-renewal and endoderm specification, produced several highly expressed miRNA species (isomiRs). Overall, isomiRs represented >10% of sequencing reads in >40% of all detected stem-loop arms, suggesting that the impact of these abundant miRNA species may have been overlooked in previous studies. Because of their relative abundance, the role of differential isomiR targeting was studied using the miR-302 cluster as a model system. A miRNA mimetic for miR-302a-5p, but not miR-302a-5p(+3), decreased expression of orthodenticle homeobox 2 (OTX2). Conversely, isomiR 302a-5p(+3) selectively decreased expression of tuberous sclerosis protein 1, but not OTX2, indicating nonoverlapping specificity of miRNA processing variants. Taken together, our characterization of miRNA expression, which includes novel miRNAs and isomiRs, helps establish a foundation for understanding the role of miRNAs in DE formation and selective targeting by isomiRs.'] 
24268252 Currently the full-text not available Mouse embryonic stem cells cultured under serum- and feeder-free conditions maintain their self-renewal capacity on hydroxyapatite. Materials science & engineering. C, Materials for biological applications ['New tissue engineering techniques based on embryonic stem (ES) cells and artificial scaffolds are required for regenerative medicine. Because artificial scaffolds can regulate the differentiation states of ES cells, compatibility between the cells and artificial scaffolds is important. To our knowledge, this study is the first report showing that mouse ES (mES) cells can be maintained in undifferentiated state on hydroxyapatite coated with gelatin. In contrast to previous studies, our culture medium was serum-free and included a GSK-3 inhibitor. Under these conditions, mES colony morphology was similar to that of an undifferentiated state; mES cells expressed the pluripotent-specific factors Oct-3/4 and Nanog, and they maintained the ability to differentiate into the three germ layers. Moreover, a GSK-3 inhibitor blocked the expression of integrin subunits that bind to laminin which are known to induce the differentiation of mES cells. These findings indicate that mES cells can be cultured under serum- and feeder-free conditions and maintained in an undifferentiated state on a composite with hydroxyapatite and that this composite can be used to control the differentiation of stem cells.'] 
25132103 Currently the full-text not available Brief report: complement C5a promotes human embryonic stem cell pluripotency in the absence of FGF2. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ['The complement activation product, C5a, is a pivotal member of the innate immune response; however, a diverse number of nonimmune functions are now being ascribed to C5a signaling, including roles during embryonic development. Here, we identify the expression of the C5a precursor protein, C5, as well as the C5a receptors, C5aR and C5L2, in both human embryonic stem cells and human-induced pluripotent stem cells. We show that administration of a physiologically relevant dose of purified human C5a (1 nM) stimulates activation of ERK1/2 and AKT signaling pathways, and is able to promote maintenance of the pluripotent state in the absence of FGF2. C5a also reduced cell loss following dissociation of human pluripotent stem cells. Our results reveal that complement C5a signaling supports human stem cell pluripotency and survival, and thus may play a key role in shaping early human embryonic development.'] 
23658023 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3696646/pdf/ Comparative proteomic analysis of supportive and unsupportive extracellular matrix substrates for human embryonic stem cell maintenance. The Journal of biological chemistry ['Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are pluripotent cells that have indefinite replicative potential and the ability to differentiate into derivatives of all three germ layers. hESCs are conventionally grown on mitotically inactivated mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) or feeder cells of human origin. In addition, feeder-free culture systems can be used to support hESCs, in which the adhesive substrate plays a key role in the regulation of stem cell self-renewal or differentiation. Extracellular matrix (ECM) components define the microenvironment of the niche for many types of stem cells, but their role in the maintenance of hESCs remains poorly understood. We used a proteomic approach to characterize in detail the composition and interaction networks of ECMs that support the growth of self-renewing hESCs. Whereas many ECM components were produced by supportive and unsupportive MEF and human placental stromal fibroblast feeder cells, some proteins were only expressed in supportive ECM, suggestive of a role in the maintenance of pluripotency. We show that identified candidate molecules can support attachment and self-renewal of hESCs alone (fibrillin-1) or in combination with fibronectin (perlecan, fibulin-2), in the absence of feeder cells. Together, these data highlight the importance of specific ECM interactions in the regulation of hESC phenotype and provide a resource for future studies of hESC self-renewal.'] 
24446170 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3991759/pdf/ MicroRNA screen of human embryonic stem cell differentiation reveals miR-105 as an enhancer of megakaryopoiesis from adult CD34+ cells. Stem cells (Dayton, Ohio) ["MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can control stem cell differentiation by targeting mRNAs. Using 96-well plate electroporation, we screened 466 human miRNA mimics by four-color flow cytometry to explore differentiation of common myeloid progenitors (CMP) derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). The transfected cells were then cultured in a cytokine cocktail that supported multiple hematopoietic lineages. At 4-5 days post-transfection, flow cytometry of erythroid (CD235(+)CD41(-)), megakaryocyte (CD41(+)CD42(+)), and myeloid (CD18(+)CD235(-)) lineages revealed miR-105 as a novel enhancer of megakaryocyte production during in vitro primitive hematopoiesis. In hESC-derived CMPs, miR-105 caused a sixfold enhancement in megakaryocyte production. miR-513a, miR-571, and miR-195 were found to be less potent megakaryocyte enhancers. We confirmed the relevance of miR-105 in adult megakaryopoiesis by demonstrating increased megakaryocyte yield and megakaryocyte colony forming potential in human adult CD34(+) cells derived from peripheral blood. In addition, adult CD34(+) cells express endogenous miR-105 during megakaryocyte differentiation. siRNA knockdown of the hematopoietic transcription factor c-Myb caused a similar enhancement of megakaryocyte production as miR-105. Finally, a luciferase/c-Myb-3'UTR construct and Western blot analysis demonstrated that the hematopoietic transcription factor c-Myb mRNA was a target of miR-105. We report a novel hESC-based miR screening platform and demonstrate that miR-105 is an enhancer of megakaryopoiesis in both primitive and definitive hematopoiesis."] 
