TBK-1 promotes autophagy-mediated antimicrobial defense by controlling autophagosome maturation. 22921120 Immunity [u'Autophagy is a fundamental biological process of the eukaryotic cell contributing to diverse cellular and physiological functions including cell-autonomous defense against intracellular pathogens. Here, we screened the Rab family of membrane trafficking regulators for effects on autophagic elimination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis var. bovis BCG and found that Rab8b and its downstream interacting partner, innate immunity regulator TBK-1, are required for autophagic elimination of mycobacteria in macrophages. TBK-1 was necessary for autophagic maturation. TBK-1 coordinated assembly and function of the autophagic machinery and phosphorylated the autophagic adaptor p62 (sequestosome 1) on Ser-403, a residue essential for its role in autophagic clearance. A key proinflammatory cytokine, IL-1\u03b2, induced autophagy leading to autophagic killing of mycobacteria in macrophages, and this IL-1\u03b2 activity was dependent on TBK-1. Thus, TBK-1 is\xa0a key regulator of immunological autophagy and is responsible for the maturation of autophagosomes into lytic bactericidal organelles.'] 
Influence of TBK-1 on tumor angiogenesis and microvascular inflammation. 18508731 Frontiers in bioscience : a journal and virtual library ['Tank-Binding-Kinase 1 (TBK-1) has been proposed as a putative mediator in tumor angiogenesis. It was the aim of our study to gain insight into TBK-1s role in tumor angiogenesis and tumor-associated microvascular inflammation. TBK-1 overexpressing KB 3-1 cells were generated and their growth characteristics were analyzed. Expression of TBK-1, VEGF, RANTES and Il-8 were quantified using qPCR and western blot analysis. Intravital microscopy using the dorsal skinfold chamber model in nude mice addressed total (TIVD) and functional intratumoral vascular density (FIVD), perfusion index, vessel diameter and leukocyte sticking. Transfection of KB-3 cells resulted in significantly increased TBK-1, RANTES and IL-8 expression without affecting cellular growth. Supernatants from TBK-1 overexpressing clones induced HUVEC proliferation. Intravital microscopy identified an increase in leukocyte sticking paralleled by significantly increased TIVD and FIVD as a result of increased VEGF expression. Therefore, TBK-1 represents a novel mediator of tumor angiogenesis and exerts proinflammatory effects via upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. The TBK-1 pathway might be an important cross-link between angiogenesis and inflammation representing a possible target for anti-tumor therapy.'] 
