26320998 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4567405/pdf/ Inhibition of cGAS DNA Sensing by a Herpesvirus Virion Protein.
Cell host & microbe ["Invading viral DNA can be recognized by the host cytosolic DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS), resulting in production of the second messenger cGAMP, which directs the adaptor protein STING to stimulate production of type I interferons (IFNs).
Although several DNA viruses are sensed by cGAS, viral strategies targeting cGAS are virtually unknown.
We report here that Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV)
ORF52, an abundant gammaherpesvirus-specific tegument protein, subverts cytosolic DNA sensing by directly inhibiting cGAS enzymatic activity through a mechanism involving both cGAS binding and DNA binding.
Moreover, ORF52 homologs in other gammaherpesviruses also inhibit cGAS activity and similarly bind cGAS and DNA, suggesting conserved inhibitory mechanisms.
Furthermore, KSHV infection evokes cGAS-dependent responses that can limit the infection, and an ORF52 null mutant exhibits increased cGAS signaling.
Our findings reveal a mechanism through which gammaherpesviruses antagonize host cGAS DNA sensing."] 
25425575 Currently the full-text not available Cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids activate the cGAS-STING axis.
The EMBO journal ["Intracellular recognition of non-self and also self-nucleic acids can result in the initiation of potent pro-inflammatory and antiviral cytokine responses.
Most recently, cGAS was shown to be critical for the recognition of cytoplasmic dsDNA. Binding of dsDNA to cGAS results in the synthesis of cGAMP(2'-5'), which then binds to the endoplasmic reticulum resident protein STING.
This initiates a signaling cascade that triggers the induction of an antiviral immune response.
While most studies on intracellular nucleic acids have focused on dsRNA or dsDNA, it has remained unexplored whether cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids are also sensed by the innate immune system.
Studying synthetic RNA:DNA hybrids, we indeed observed a strong type I interferon response upon cytosolic delivery of this class of molecule.
Studies in THP-1 knockout cells revealed that the recognition of RNA:DNA hybrids is completely attributable to the cGAS-STING pathway.
Moreover, in vitro studies showed that recombinant cGAS produced cGAMP upon RNA:DNA hybrid recognition.
Altogether, our results introduce RNA:DNA hybrids as a novel class of intracellular PAMP molecules and describe an alternative cGAS ligand next to dsDNA."] 
26829768 Currently the full-text not available Glutamylation of the DNA sensor cGAS regulates its binding and synthase activity in antiviral immunity.
Nature immunology ['Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) senses cytosolic DNA during viral infection and catalyzes synthesis of the dinucleotide cGAMP, which activates the adaptor STING to initiate antiviral responses.
Here we found that deficiency in the carboxypeptidase CCP5 or CCP6 led to susceptibility to DNA viruses.
CCP5 and CCP6 were required for activation of the transcription factor IRF3 and interferons.
Polyglutamylation of cGAS by the enzyme TTLL6 impeded its DNA-binding ability, whereas TTLL4-mediated monoglutamylation of cGAS blocked its synthase activity.
Conversely, CCP6 removed the polyglutamylation of cGAS, whereas CCP5 hydrolyzed the monoglutamylation of cGAS, which together led to the activation of cGAS.
Therefore, glutamylation and deglutamylation of cGAS tightly modulate immune responses to infection with DNA viruses.'] 
24116191 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3792152/pdf/ Structural and functional analyses of DNA-sensing and immune activation by human cGAS. PloS one ['The detection of cytosolic DNA, derived from pathogens or host cells, by cytosolic receptors is essential for appropriate host immune responses.
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a newly identified cytosolic DNA receptor that produces cyclic GMP-AMP, which activates stimulator of interferon genes (STING), resulting in TBK1-IRF3 pathway activation followed by the production of type I interferons.
Here we report the crystal structure of human cGAS.
The structure revealed that a cluster of lysine and arginine residues forms the positively charged DNA binding surface of human cGAS, which is important for the STING-dependent immune activation.
A structural comparison with other previously determined cGASs and our functional analyses suggested that a conserved zinc finger motif and a leucine residue on the DNA binding surface are crucial for the DNA-specific immune response of human cGAS, consistent with previous work.
These structural features properly orient the DNA binding to cGAS, which is critical for DNA-induced cGAS activation and STING-dependent immune activation.
Furthermore, we showed that the cGAS-induced activation of STING also involves the activation of the NF-κB and IRF3 pathways.
Our results indicated that cGAS is a DNA sensor that efficiently activates the host immune system by inducing two distinct pathways.'] 
24462292 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3969844/pdf/
The cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS forms an oligomeric complex with DNA and undergoes switch-like conformational changes in the activation loop.
Cell reports ['The presence of DNA in the cytoplasm is a danger signal that triggers immune and inflammatory responses.
Cytosolic DNA binds to and activates cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS), which produces the second messenger cGAMP. cGAMP binds to the adaptor protein STING and activates a signaling cascade that leads to the production of type I interferons and other cytokines.
Here, we report the crystal structures of human cGAS in its apo form, representing its autoinhibited conformation as well as in its cGAMP- and sulfate-bound forms.
These structures reveal switch-like conformational changes of an activation loop that result in the rearrangement of the catalytic site.
The structure of DNA-bound cGAS reveals a complex composed of dimeric cGAS bound to two molecules of DNA. Functional analyses of cGAS mutants demonstrate that both the protein-protein interface and the two DNA binding surfaces are critical for cGAS activation.
These results provide insights into the mechanism of DNA sensing by cGAS.'] 
26199418 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4534226/pdf/
Modulation of the cGAS-STING DNA sensing pathway by gammaherpesviruses.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America [
"Infection of cells with DNA viruses triggers innate immune responses mediated by DNA sensors.
cGMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a key DNA sensor that produces the cyclic dinucleotide cGMP-AMP (cGAMP) upon activation, which binds to and activates stimulator of interferon genes (STING), leading to IFN production and an antiviral response.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a DNA virus that is linked to several human malignancies.
We report that KSHV infection activates the cGAS-STING pathway, and that cGAS and STING also play an important role in regulating KSHV reactivation from latency.
We screened KSHV proteins for their ability to inhibit this pathway and identified six viral proteins that block IFN-β activation through this pathway.
This study is the first report identifying multiple viral proteins encoded by a human DNA virus that inhibit the cGAS-STING DNA sensing pathway.
One such protein, viral interferon regulatory factor 1 (vIRF1), targets STING by preventing it from interacting with TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1), thereby inhibiting STING's phosphorylation and concomitant activation, resulting in an inhibition of the DNA sensing pathway.
Our data provide a unique mechanism for the negative regulation of STING-mediated DNA sensing.
Moreover, the depletion of vIRF1 in the context of KSHV infection prevented efficient viral reactivation and replication, and increased the host IFN response to KSHV.
The vIRF1-expressing cells also inhibited IFN-β production following infection with DNA pathogens.
Collectively, our results demonstrate that gammaherpesviruses encode inhibitors that block cGAS-STING-mediated antiviral immunity, and that modulation of this pathway is important for viral transmission and the lifelong persistence of herpesviruses in the human population."] 
23722159 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3768140/pdf/
Structural mechanism of cytosolic DNA sensing by cGAS. Nature ["Cytosolic DNA arising from intracellular bacterial or viral infections is a powerful pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) that leads to innate immune host defence by the production of type I interferon and inflammatory cytokines.
Recognition of cytosolic DNA by the recently discovered cyclic-GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) induces the production of cGAMP to activate the stimulator of interferon genes (STING).
Here we report the crystal structure of cGAS alone and in complex with DNA, ATP and GTP along with functional studies.
Our results explain the broad DNA sensing specificity of cGAS, show how cGAS catalyses dinucleotide formation and indicate activation by a DNA-induced structural switch.
cGAS possesses a remarkable structural similarity to the antiviral cytosolic double-stranded RNA sensor 2'-5'oligoadenylate synthase (OAS1), but contains a unique zinc thumb that recognizes B-form double-stranded DNA. Our results mechanistically unify dsRNA and dsDNA innate immune sensing by OAS1 and cGAS nucleotidyl transferases."] 
26440888 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4607670/pdf/
Akt Kinase-Mediated Checkpoint of cGAS DNA Sensing Pathway.
Cell reports ["Upon DNA stimulation, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) synthesizes the second messenger cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) that binds to the STING, triggering antiviral interferon-β (IFN-β) production.
However, it has remained undetermined how hosts regulate cGAS enzymatic activity after the resolution of DNA immunogen.
Here, we show that Akt kinase plays a negative role in cGAS-mediated anti-viral immune response.
Akt phosphorylated the S291 or S305 residue of the enzymatic domain of mouse or human cGAS, respectively, and this phosphorylation robustly suppressed its enzymatic activity.
Consequently, expression of activated Akt led to the reduction of cGAMP and IFN-β production and the increase of herpes simplex virus 1 replication, whereas treatment with Akt inhibitor augmented cGAS-mediated IFN-β production.
Furthermore, expression of the phosphorylation-resistant cGAS S291A mutant enhanced IFN-β production upon DNA stimulation, HSV-1 infection, and vaccinia virus infection.
Our study identifies an Akt kinase-mediated checkpoint to fine-tune hosts' immune responses to DNA stimulation."] 
25007740 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4254336/pdf/
The mechanism of double-stranded DNA sensing through the cGAS-STING pathway.
Cytokine & growth factor reviews ["Microbial nucleic acids induce potent innate immune responses by stimulating the expression of type I interferons.
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic dsDNA sensor mediating the innate immunity to microbial DNA. cGAS is activated by dsDNA and catalyze the synthesis of a cyclic dinucleotide cGAMP with 2',5' and 3',5'phosphodiester linkages.
cGAMP binds to the adaptor STING located on the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and mediates the recruitment and activation of the protein kinase TBK1 and transcription factor IRF3.
Phosphorylated IRF3 translocates to the nucleus and initiates the transcription of the IFN-β gene.
The crystal structures of cGAS and its complex with dsDNA, STING and its complex with various cyclic dinucleotides have been determined recently.
Here we summarize the results from these structural studies and provide an overview about the mechanism of cGAS activation by dsDNA, the catalytic mechanism of cGAS, and the structural basis of STING activation by cGAMP."] 
25609843 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4324085/pdf/
Positive feedback regulation of type I IFN production by the IFN-inducible DNA sensor cGAS. Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['Rapid and robust induction of type
I IFN (IFN-I)
is a critical event in host antiviral innate immune response.
It has been well demonstrated that cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) plays an important role in sensing cytosolic DNA and triggering STING dependent signaling to induce IFN-I. However, it is largely unknown how cGAS itself is regulated during pathogen infection and IFN-I production.
In this study, we show that pattern recognition receptor (PRR) ligands, including lipid A, LPS, poly(I:C), poly(dA:dT), and cGAMP, induce cGAS expression in an IFN-I-dependent manner in both mouse and human macrophages.
Further experiments indicated that cGAS is an IFN-stimulated gene (ISG), and two adjacent IFN-sensitive response elements (ISREs) in the promoter region of cGAS mediate the induction of cGAS by IFN-I.
Additionally, we show that optimal production of IFN-β triggered by poly (dA:dT) or HSV-1 requires IFNAR signaling.
Knockdown of the constitutively expressed DNA sensor DDX41 attenuates poly(dA:dT)-triggered IFN-β production and cGAS induction.
By analyzing the dynamic expression of poly(dA:dT)-induced IFN-β and cGAS transcripts, we have found that induction of IFN-β is earlier than cGAS.
Furthermore, we have provided evidence that induction of cGAS by IFN-I meditates the subsequent positive feedback regulation of DNA-triggered IFN-I production.
Thus, our study not only provides a novel mechanism of modulating cGAS expression, but also adds another layer of regulation in DNA-triggered IFN-I production by induction of cGAS.'] 
24981511 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4117786/pdf/
Molecular evolutionary and structural analysis of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS and STING. Nucleic acids research ["Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is recently identified as a cytosolic DNA sensor and generates a non-canonical cGAMP that contains G(2',5')pA and A(3',5')pG phosphodiester linkages.
cGAMP activates STING which triggers innate immune responses in mammals.
However, the evolutionary functions and origins of cGAS and STING remain largely elusive.
Here, we carried out comprehensive evolutionary analyses of the cGAS-STING pathway.
Phylogenetic analysis of cGAS and STING families showed that their origins could be traced back to a choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis.
Modern cGAS and STING may have acquired structural features, including zinc-ribbon domain and critical amino acid residues for DNA binding in cGAS as well as carboxy terminal tail domain for transducing signals in STING, only recently in vertebrates.
In invertebrates, cGAS homologs may not act as DNA sensors.
Both proteins cooperate extensively, have similar evolutionary characteristics, and thus may have co-evolved during metazoan evolution.
cGAS homologs and a prokaryotic dinucleotide cyclase for canonical cGAMP share conserved secondary structures and catalytic residues.
Therefore, non-mammalian cGAS may function as a nucleotidyltransferase and could produce cGAMP and other cyclic dinucleotides.
Taken together, assembling signaling components of the cGAS-STING pathway onto the eukaryotic evolutionary map illuminates the functions and origins of this innate immune pathway."] 
27637147 Currently the full-text not available Sumoylation Promotes the Stability of the DNA Sensor cGAS and the Adaptor STING to Regulate the Kinetics of Response to DNA Virus.
Immunity ['During viral infection, sensing of cytosolic DNA by the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) activates the adaptor protein STING and triggers an antiviral response.
Little is known about the mechanisms that determine the kinetics of activation and deactivation of the cGAS-STING pathway, ensuring effective but controlled innate antiviral responses.
Here we found that the ubiquitin ligase Trim38 targets cGas for sumoylation in uninfected cells and during the early phase of viral infection.
Sumoylation of cGas prevented its polyubiquitination and degradation.
Trim38 also sumoylated Sting during the early phase of viral infection, promoting both Sting activation and protein stability.
In the late phase of infection, cGas and Sting were desumoylated by Senp2 and subsequently degraded via proteasomal and chaperone-mediated autophagy pathways, respectively.
Our findings reveal an essential role for Trim38 in the innate immune response to DNA virus and provide insight into the mechanisms that ensure optimal activation and deactivation of the cGAS-STING pathway.'] 
24528868 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3950946/pdf/
Crosstalk between the cGAS DNA sensor and Beclin-1 autophagy protein shapes innate antimicrobial immune responses.
Cell host & microbe ['Robust immune responses are essential for eliminating pathogens but must be metered to avoid prolonged immune activation and potential host damage.
Upon recognition of microbial DNA, the cytosolic DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthetase (cGAS) produces the second messenger cGAMP to initiate the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway and subsequent interferon (IFN) production.
We report that the direct interaction between cGAS and the Beclin-1 autophagy protein not only suppresses cGAMP synthesis to halt IFN production upon double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) stimulation or herpes simplex virus-1 infection, but also enhances autophagy-mediated degradation of cytosolic pathogen DNA to prevent excessive cGAS activation and persistent immune stimulation.
Specifically, this interaction releases Rubicon, a negative autophagy regulator, from the Beclin-1 complex, activating phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase class III activity and thereby inducing autophagy to remove cytosolic pathogen DNA.
Thus, the cGAS-Beclin-1 interaction shapes innate immune responses by regulating both cGAMP production and autophagy, resulting in well-balanced antimicrobial immune responses.'] 
27696330 Currently the full-text not available DNA sensor cGAS-mediated immune recognition.
Protein & cell [StringElement('The host takes use of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) to defend against pathogen invasion or cellular damage.
Among microorganism-associated molecular patterns detected by host PRRs, nucleic acids derived from bacteria or viruses are tightly supervised, providing a fundamental mechanism of host defense.
Pathogenic DNAs are supposed to be detected by DNA sensors that induce the activation of NFκB or TBK1-IRF3 pathway.
DNA sensor cGAS is widely expressed in innate immune cells and is a key sensor of invading DNAs in several cell types.
cGAS binds to DNA, followed by a conformational change that allows the synthesis of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) from adenosine triphosphate and guanosine triphosphate.
cGAMP is a strong activator of STING that can activate IRF3 and subsequent type I interferon production.
Here we describe recent progresses in DNA sensors especially cGAS in the innate immune responses against pathogenic DNAs.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26405230 Currently the full-text not available DNA tumor virus oncogenes antagonize the cGAS-STING DNA-sensing pathway.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['Cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase (cGAS) detects intracellular DNA and signals through the adapter protein STING to initiate the antiviral response to DNA viruses.
Whether DNA viruses can prevent activation of the cGAS-STING pathway remains largely unknown.
Here, we identify the oncogenes of the DNA tumor viruses, including E7 from human papillomavirus (HPV) and E1A from adenovirus, as potent and specific inhibitors of the cGAS-STING pathway.
We show that the LXCXE motif of these oncoproteins, which is essential for blockade of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor, is also important for antagonizing DNA sensing.
E1A and E7 bind to STING, and silencing of these oncogenes in human tumor cells restores the cGAS-STING pathway.
Our findings reveal a host-virus conflict that may have shaped the evolution of viral oncogenes.'] 
24198409 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3911663/pdf/
Adenovirus detection by the cGAS/STING/TBK1 DNA sensing cascade.
Journal of virology ['Adenovirus (Ad) infection triggers a cell-specific antiviral response following exposure of viral DNA to the intracellular compartment.
A variety of DNA sensors (DAI, AIM2, DDx41, RNA polymerase [Pol] III, and IFI16 [p204]) have been identified in recent years; however, the DNA sensor involved in detection of adenovirus has not been established.
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), a DNA sensor that produces a cyclic guanine-adenine dinucleotide (cGAMP) inducer of STING, has been examined to determine its role in generating an antiadenoviral response.
Short hairpin RNA (shRNA)
lentiviral vectors targeting TBK1, STING, and cGAS were established in murine MS1 endothelial and RAW 264.7 macrophage cell lines.
Knockdown of TBK1, STING, and cGAS results in a dramatic reduction in the activation of the primary antiviral response marker phosphorylated interferon (IFN) response factor 3 (IRF3) following exposure to adenovirus.
Furthermore, activation of secondary type I IFN signaling targets ((ptyr)STAT1 and (ptyr)STAT2 [(ptyr)STAT1/2]) was also compromised.
Consistent with compromised activation of primary and secondary response markers, transcriptional activation of IRF3-responsive genes (beta IFN [IFN-β], ISG15, ISG54) and secondary response transcripts were diminished in cells knocked down in cGAS, STING, or TBK1.
These data establish cGAS as the dominant cytosolic DNA sensor responsible for detection of internalized adenovirus leading to induction of the type I interferon antiviral cascade.'] 
27125983 Currently the full-text not available Human plasmacytoid dentritic cells elicit a Type I Interferon response by sensing DNA via the cGAS-STING signaling pathway.
European journal of immunology ['Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are a major source of type I interferon (IFN) and are important for host defense by sensing microbial DNA via TLR9.
pDCs also play a critical role in the pathogenesis of IFN-driven autoimmune diseases.
Yet, this autoimmune reaction is caused by the recognition of self-DNA and has been linked to TLR9-independent pathways.
Increasing evidence suggests that the cytosolic DNA receptor cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is a critical component in the detection of pathogens and contributes to autoimmune diseases.
It has been shown that binding of DNA to cGAS results in the synthesis of cGAMP and the subsequent activation of the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) adaptor to induce IFNs.
Our results show that the cGAS-STING pathway is expressed and activated in human pDCs by cytosolic DNA leading to a robust type I IFN response.
Direct activation of STING by cyclic dinucleotides including cGAMP also activated pDCs and knockdown of STING abolished this IFN response.
These results suggest that pDCs sense cytosolic DNA and cyclic dinucleotides via the cGAS-STING pathway and that targeting this pathway could be of therapeutic interest.'] 
27648547 Currently the full-text not available Regulation and function of the cGAS-STING pathway of cytosolic DNA sensing.
Nature immunology ['The recognition of microbial nucleic acids is a major mechanism by which the immune system detects pathogens.
Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP)
synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic DNA sensor that activates innate immune responses through production of the second messenger cGAMP, which activates the adaptor STING.
The cGAS-STING pathway not only mediates protective immune defense against infection by a large variety of DNA-containing pathogens but also detects tumor-derived DNA and generates intrinsic antitumor immunity.
However, aberrant activation of the cGAS pathway by self DNA can also lead to autoimmune and inflammatory disease.
Thus, the cGAS pathway must be properly regulated.
Here we review the recent advances in understanding of the cGAS-STING pathway, focusing on the regulatory mechanisms and roles of this pathway in heath and disease.'] 
26944200 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4852885 [
AVAILABLE ON 03/15/17]/pdf/ The Vaccine Adjuvant Chitosan Promotes Cellular Immunity via DNA Sensor cGAS-STING-Dependent Induction of Type I Interferons.
Immunity ['The cationic polysaccharide chitosan is an attractive candidate adjuvant capable of driving potent cell-mediated immunity, but the mechanism by which it acts is not clear.
We show that chitosan promotes dendritic cell maturation by inducing type I interferons (IFNs) and enhances antigen-specific T helper 1 (Th1) responses in a type I IFN receptor-dependent manner.
The induction of type I IFNs, IFN-stimulated genes and dendritic cell maturation by chitosan required the cytoplasmic DNA sensor cGAS and STING, implicating this pathway in dendritic cell activation.
Additionally, this process was dependent on mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and the presence of cytoplasmic DNA. Chitosan-mediated enhancement of antigen specific Th1 and immunoglobulin G2c responses following vaccination was dependent on both cGAS and STING.
These findings demonstrate that a cationic polymer can engage the STING-cGAS pathway to trigger innate and adaptive immune responses.'] 
18321161
Currently the full-text not available Biodistribution of 68Ga-labeled LNA-DNA mixmer antisense oligonucleotides for rat chromogranin-A. Oligonucleotides ['In vivo monitoring of gene expression may be accomplished using a most advanced imaging technology such as positron emission tomography (PET).
However, a range of methodological and biological hurdles needs exploration.
In the present study, 20-mer DNA-LNA (locked nucleic acid)
mixmer oligonucleotides specific for rat Chromogranin-A (Chg-A)
mRNA were labeled with 68Ga and their biodistribution were investigated in rats; namely, two Antisense (LNA1, LNA2--differing only in the positioning of LNA modification), Mismatched, and Sense sequences.
In addition, in vivo and in vitro metabolite analysis of LNA1 and LNA2 was compared, and hybridization in solution was performed to verify the hybridization ability after labeling.
Furthermore, semiquantitative polymerase chain reaction was carried out to find organs expressing Chg-A mRNA in the rat.
The biodistribution patterns altered according to the sequence and the positioning of LNA modification.
The pattern of Mismatched--differing only in two nucleotides from the two Antisenses--was similar to that of Sense, whereas the pattern of LNA1 and LNA2 showed differences.
Uptake in the adrenal gland was twofold higher with LNA2 compared to the other three oligonucleotides.
Intact LNA2 could be observed in the 60-minute sample in vivo, whereas in vitro, the intact compound of both Antisenses could also be detected after 2 hours.
Hybridization in solution revealed that the two Antisenses retained their hybridization abilities after 68Ga-labeling.
With decreasing magnitude, Chg-A mRNA was expressed in the adrenal gland, intestine, testis, and pancreas.
This study further supported LNA-DNA mixmer to be a favorable modification for antisense targeting approach with respect to hybridization and longer plasma residence; however, the organ uptake was dominated by processes irrelevant to specific hybridization.'] 
26811480 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4776510/pdf/
Cytoplasmic isoforms of Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus LANA recruit and antagonize the innate immune DNA sensor cGAS. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['The latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA) of Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV) is mainly localized and functions in the nucleus of latently infected cells, playing a pivotal role in the replication and maintenance of latent viral episomal DNA.
In addition, N-terminally truncated cytoplasmic isoforms of LANA, resulting from internal translation initiation, have been reported, but their function is unknown.
Using coimmunoprecipitation and MS, we found the cGMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), an innate immune DNA sensor, to be a cellular interaction partner of cytoplasmic LANA isoforms.
By directly binding to cGAS, LANA, and particularly, a cytoplasmic isoform, inhibit the cGAS-STING-dependent phosphorylation of TBK1 and IRF3 and thereby antagonize the cGAS-mediated restriction of KSHV lytic replication.
We hypothesize that cytoplasmic forms of LANA, whose expression increases during lytic replication, inhibit cGAS to promote the reactivation of the KSHV from latency.
This observation points to a novel function of the cytoplasmic isoforms of LANA during lytic replication and extends the function of LANA from its role during latency to the lytic replication cycle.'] 
27666593 Currently the full-text not available TRIM14 Inhibits cGAS Degradation Mediated by Selective Autophagy Receptor p62 to Promote Innate Immune Responses.
Molecular cell [StringElement('Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is an essential DNA virus sensor that triggers type I interferon (IFN) signaling by producing cGAMP to initiate antiviral immunity.
However, post-translational regulation of cGAS remains largely unknown.
We report that K48-linked ubiquitination of cGAS is a recognition signal for p62-depdendent selective autophagic degradation.
The induction of TRIM14 by type I IFN accelerates cGAS stabilization by recruiting USP14 to cleave the ubiquitin chains of cGAS at lysine (K) 414.
Knockout of TRIM14 impairs herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-triggered antiviral responses in a cGAS-dependent manner.
Due to impaired type I IFN production, Trim14(-/-) mice are highly susceptible to lethal HSV-1 infection.
Taken together, our findings reveal a positive feedback loop of cGAS signaling generated by TRIM14-USP14 and provide insights into the crosstalk between autophagy and type I IFN signaling in innate immunity.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26343537 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4669199/pdf/ Sequence-specific activation of the DNA sensor cGAS by Y-form DNA structures as found in primary HIV-1 cDNA. Nature immunology ['Cytosolic DNA that emerges during infection with a retrovirus or DNA virus triggers antiviral type I interferon responses.
So far, only double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) over 40 base pairs (bp) in length has been considered immunostimulatory.
Here we found that unpaired DNA nucleotides flanking short base-paired DNA stretches, as in stem-loop structures of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) derived from human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), activated the type I interferon-inducing DNA sensor cGAS in a sequence-dependent manner.
DNA structures containing unpaired guanosines flanking short (12- to 20-bp)
dsDNA (Y-form DNA) were highly stimulatory and specifically enhanced the enzymatic activity of cGAS.
Furthermore, we found that primary HIV-1 reverse transcripts represented the predominant viral cytosolic DNA species during early infection of macrophages and that these ssDNAs were highly immunostimulatory.
Collectively, our study identifies unpaired guanosines in Y-form DNA as a highly active, minimal cGAS recognition motif that enables detection of HIV-1 ssDNA.'] 
27076643 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4907218 [AVAILABLE ON 12/10/16]/pdf/ Diminished Innate Antiviral Response to Adenovirus Vectors in cGAS/STING-Deficient Mice Minimally Impacts Adaptive Immunity.
Journal of virology [StringElement('Infection by adenovirus, a nonenveloped DNA virus, induces antiviral innate and adaptive immune responses.
Studies of transformed human and murine cell lines using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown strategies identified cyclic guanine adenine synthase (cGAS) as a pattern recognition receptor (PRR) that contributes to the antiadenovirus response.
Here we demonstrate how the cGAS/STING cascade influences the antiviral innate and adaptive immune responses in a murine knockout model.
Using knockout bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMOs), we determined that cGAS and STING are essential to the induction of the antiadenovirus response in these antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in vitro We next determined how the cGAS/STING cascade impacts the antiviral response following systemic administration of a recombinant adenovirus type 5 vector (rAd5V).
Infection of cGAS(-/-) and STING(-/-) mice results in a compromised early antiviral innate response compared to that in wild-type (WT) controls: significantly lower levels of beta interferon (IFN-β) secretion, low levels of proinflammatory chemokine induction, and reduced levels of antiviral transcript induction in hepatic tissue.
At 24 h postinfection, levels of viral DNA and reporter gene expression in the liver were similar in all strains.
At 28 days postinfection, clearance of infected hepatocytes in cGAS or STING knockout mice was comparable to that in WT C57BL/6 mice.
Levels of neutralizing anti-Ad5V antibody were modestly reduced in infected cGAS mice.
These data support a dominant role for the cGAS/STING cascade in the early innate antiviral inflammatory response to adenovirus vectors.
However, loss of the cGAS/STING pathway did not affect viral clearance, and cGAS deficiency had a modest influence on the magnitude of the antiviral humoral immune response to adenovirus infections.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('The detection of viral infection by host sentinel immune cells contributes to the activation of a complex and varied antiviral innate and adaptive immune response, which limits virus replication, spread, and susceptibility to infection.
In this study, we have characterized how the cGAS/STING DNA-sensing cascade contributes to early detection of adenovirus infections.
cGAS influences APC activation and early innate antiviral inflammatory immune responses, but adaptive immune pathways associated with virus clearance and anti-Ad antibody production were minimally influenced by the loss of the cGAS PRR signaling cascade.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
26048136 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4466081/pdf/
The Cytosolic Sensor cGAS Detects Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA to Induce Type I Interferons and Activate Autophagy.
Cell host & microbe ['Type I interferons (IFNs) are critical mediators of antiviral defense, but their elicitation by bacterial pathogens can be detrimental to hosts.
Many intracellular bacterial pathogens, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis, induce type I IFNs following phagosomal membrane perturbations.
Cytosolic M. tuberculosis DNA has been implicated as a trigger for IFN production, but the mechanisms remain obscure.
We report that the cytosolic DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), is required for activating IFN production via the STING/TBK1/IRF3 pathway during M. tuberculosis and L. pneumophila infection of macrophages, whereas L. monocytogenes short-circuits this pathway by producing the STING agonist, c-di-AMP.
Upon sensing cytosolic DNA, cGAS also activates cell-intrinsic antibacterial defenses, promoting autophagic targeting of M. tuberculosis.
Importantly, we show that cGAS binds M. tuberculosis DNA during infection, providing direct evidence that this unique host-pathogen interaction occurs in vivo.
These data uncover a mechanism by which IFN is likely elicited during active human infections.'] 
25297994 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4249147/pdf/ Unabated adenovirus replication following activation of the cGAS/STING-dependent antiviral response in human cells.
Journal of virology [
StringElement('The
cGAS/STING DNA sensing complex has recently been established as a predominant pathogen recognition receptor (PRR) for DNA-directed type I interferon (IFN) innate immune activation.
Using replication-defective adenovirus vectors and replication-competent wild-type adenovirus, we have modeled the influence of the cGAS/STING cascade in permissive human cell lines (A549, HeLa, ARPE19, and THP1).
Wild-type adenovirus induced efficient early activation of the cGAS/STING cascade in a cell-specific manner.
In all responsive cell lines, cGAS/STING short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown resulted in a loss of TBK1 and interferon response factor 3 (IRF3) activation, a lack of beta interferon transcript induction, loss of interferon-dependent STAT1 activation, and diminished induction of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs).
Adenoviruses that infect through the coxsackievirus-adenovirus receptor (CAR) (Ad2 and Ad5) and the CD46 (Ad35) and desmoglein-2 (Ad7) viral receptors all induce the cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade.
The magnitude of the IRF3/IFN/ISG antiviral response was strongly influenced by serotype, with Ad35>Ad7>Ad2.
For each serotype, no enhancement of viral DNA replication or virus production occurred in cGAS or STING shRNA-targeted cell line pools.
We found no replication advantage in permissive cell lines that do not trigger the cGAS/STING cascade following infection.
The cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade was not a direct target of viral antihost strategies, and we found no evidence that Ad stimulation of the cGAS/STING DNA response had an impact on viral replication efficiency.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('This study shows for the first time that the cGAS DNA sensor directs a dominant IRF3/IFN/ISG antiviral response to adenovirus in human cell lines.
Activation of cGAS occurs with viruses that infect through different high-affinity receptors (CAR, CD46, and desmoglein-2), and the magnitude of the cGAS/STING DNA response cascade is influenced by serotype-specific functions.
Furthermore, activation of the cGAS cascade occurred in a cell-specific manner.
Activation of the cGAS/STING response did not impact viral replication, and viral immune evasion strategies did not target the cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade.
These studies provide novel insight into the early innate recognition response to adenovirus.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
24879161 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4091176/pdf/
Autophagy side of MB21D1/cGAS DNA sensor.
Autophagy ['The MB21D1/cGAS (Mab-21 domain-containing 1/cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthetase), acts as an intracellular pattern recognition receptor (PPR) to sense cytosolic pathogen DNAs and subsequently generates the second messenger cGAMP to initiate the TMEM173/STING pathway for interferon (IFN) production.
Intriguingly, we have recently demonstrated crosstalk between the intracellular DNA sensing pathway and autophagy machinery by demonstrating a direct interaction between the MB21D1 DNA sensor and the BECN1/Beclin 1 autophagy protein.
This interaction not only suppresses MB21D1 enzymatic activity to halt cGAMP production, but also enhances the autophagy-mediated degradation of cytosolic microbial DNAs.
This demonstrates that MB21D1 is the molecular link between the intracellular DNA sensing pathway and the autophagy pathway, ultimately developing well-balanced immune responses against pathogens.'] 
25831530 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4394261/pdf/ cGAS-mediated stabilization of IFI16 promotes innate signaling during herpes simplex virus infection.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Interferon γ-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) and cGMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) have both been proposed to detect herpesviral DNA directly in herpes simplex virus (HSV)-infected cells and initiate interferon regulatory factor-3 signaling, but it has been unclear how two DNA sensors could both be required for this response.
We therefore investigated their relative roles in human foreskin fibroblasts (HFFs) infected with HSV or transfected with plasmid DNA. siRNA
depletion studies showed that both are required for the production of IFN in infected HFFs.
We found that cGAS shows low production of cGMP-AMP in infected cells, but instead cGAS is partially nuclear in normal human fibroblasts and keratinocytes, interacts with IFI16 in fibroblasts, and promotes the stability of IFI16.
IFI16 is associated with viral DNA and targets to viral genome complexes, consistent with it interacting directly with viral DNA.
Our results demonstrate that IFI16 and cGAS cooperate in a novel way to sense nuclear herpesviral DNA and initiate innate signaling.'] 
27863149 Currently the full-text not available cGAS Expression in Patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
Arthritis & rheumatology
(Hoboken, N.J.) [StringElement("OBJECTIVES Type I interferon (IFN-I) is implicated in the pathogenesis of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) and 'interferonopathies' such as Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome.
A recently discovered DNA-activated IFN-I pathway, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is linked to AGS and mouse models of lupus.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the cGAS pathway contributes to IFN-I production in SLE patients.
METHODS SLE disease activity was measured by SELENA-SLEDAI. cGAS and interferon stimulated gene (ISG)
mRNA expression was quantified by quantitative PCR .
cGAMP levels were monitored by Multiple Reaction Monitoring with Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography-tandem Mass Spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS).
RESULTS cGAS expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was significantly higher in SLE patients compared to normal controls (n=51 and 20 respectively, p<0.01).
cGAS expression and the IFN score were positively correlated (p<0.001).
cGAS expression in PBMC showed a dose response to IFN I stimulation in vitro, consistent with it being an ISG. Targeted measurement of cGAMP by MS/MS detected cGAMP in 15% (7/48) of SLE patients but not in any of the normal (n=19) or rheumatoid arthritis (n=22) controls.
Disease activity was higher in SLE patients with cGAMP versus those without cGAMP detected.
CONCLUSION Increased cGAS expression and cGAMP in a proportion of SLE patients indicates that the cGAS pathway needs to be considered as a contributor to IFN-I production.
Whereas higher cGAS expression may be a consequence of exposure to IFN-I, detection of cGAMP in patients with increased disease activity indicates potential involvement of this pathway in disease expression.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
27706894 Currently the full-text not available cGAS-cGAMP-STING: The three musketeers of cytosolic DNA sensing and signaling.
IUBMB life [StringElement("Innate immunity is the first line of host defense against invading pathogens.
The detection of aberrant nucleic acids which represent some conserved PAMPs triggers robust type I IFN-mediated innate immune responses.
Host- or pathogen-derived cytosolic DNA binds and activates the DNA sensor cGAS, which synthesizes the second messenger 2'3'-cGAMP and triggers STING-dependent downstream signaling.
Here, we highlight recent progress in cGAS-cGAMP-STING, the Three Musketeers of cytosolic DNA sensing and signaling, and their essential roles in infection, autoimmune diseases, and cancer.
We also focus on the regulation of these critical signal components by variant host/pathogen proteins and update our understanding of this indispensable pathway to provide new insights for drug discovery.
© 2016 IUBMB Life, 68(11):858-870, 2016.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
27058035 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4825940/pdf/
cGAS Senses Human Cytomegalovirus and Induces Type I Interferon Responses in Human Monocyte-Derived Cells.
PLoS pathogens ['Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infections of healthy individuals are mostly unnoticed and result in viral latency.
However, HCMV can also cause devastating disease, e.g., upon reactivation in immunocompromised patients.
Yet, little is known about human immune cell sensing of DNA-encoded HCMV. Recent studies indicated that during viral infection the cyclic GMP/AMP synthase (cGAS) senses cytosolic DNA and catalyzes formation of the cyclic di-nucleotide cGAMP, which triggers stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and thus induces antiviral type I interferon (IFN-I) responses.
We found that plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC) as well as monocyte-derived DC and macrophages constitutively expressed cGAS and STING. HCMV infection further induced cGAS, whereas STING expression was only moderately affected.
Although pDC expressed particularly high levels of cGAS, and the cGAS/STING axis was functional down-stream of STING, as indicated by IFN-I induction upon synthetic cGAMP treatment, pDC were not susceptible to HCMV infection and mounted IFN-I responses in a TLR9-dependent manner.
Conversely, HCMV infected monocyte-derived cells synthesized abundant cGAMP levels that preceded IFN-I production and that correlated with the extent of infection.
CRISPR/Cas9- or siRNA-mediated cGAS ablation in monocytic THP-1 cells and primary monocyte-derived cells, respectively, impeded induction of IFN-I responses following HCMV infection.
Thus, cGAS is a key sensor of HCMV for IFN-I induction in primary human monocyte-derived DC and macrophages.'] 
27889408 Currently the full-text not available An RNA-Based Fluorescent Biosensor for High-Throughput Analysis of the cGAS-cGAMP-STING Pathway.
Cell chemical biology [StringElement('In mammalian cells, the second messenger (2\'-5\',3\'-5\') cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (2\',3\'-cGAMP), is produced by the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAMP synthase (cGAS), and subsequently bound by the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) to trigger interferon response.
Thus, the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway plays a critical role in pathogen detection, as well as pathophysiological conditions including cancer and autoimmune disorders.
However, studying and targeting this immune signaling pathway has been challenging due to the\xa0absence of tools for high-throughput analysis.
We have engineered an RNA-based fluorescent biosensor that responds to 2\',3\'-cGAMP.
The resulting "mix-and-go" cGAS activity assay shows excellent statistical reliability as a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay and distinguishes between direct and indirect cGAS inhibitors.
Furthermore, the biosensor enables quantitation of 2\',3\'-cGAMP in mammalian cell lysates.
We envision this biosensor-based assay as a resource to study the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway in the context of infectious diseases, cancer immunotherapy, and autoimmune diseases.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25710914 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4367159/pdf/ cGAS and Ifi204 cooperate to produce type I IFNs in response to Francisella infection.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['Type I IFN production is an important host immune response against viral and bacterial infections.
However, little is known about the ligands and corresponding host receptors that trigger type I IFN production during bacterial infections.
We used a model intracellular pathogen, Francisella novicida, to begin characterizing the type I IFN response to bacterial pathogens.
F. novicida replicates in the cytosol of host cells and elicits a robust type I IFN response that is largely TLR independent, but is dependent on the adapter molecule STING, suggesting that the type I IFN stimulus during F. novicida infection is cytosolic.
In this study, we report that the cytosolic DNA sensors, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and Ifi204, are both required for the STING-dependent type I IFN response to F. novicida infection in both primary and immortalized murine macrophages.
We created cGAS, Ifi204, and Sting functional knockouts in RAW264.7 macrophages and demonstrated that cGAS and Ifi204 cooperate to sense dsDNA and activate the STING-dependent type I IFN pathway.
In addition, we show that dsDNA from F. novicida is an important type I IFN stimulating ligand.
One outcome of cGAS-STING signaling is the activation of the absent in melanoma 2 inflammasome in response to F. novicida infection.
Whereas the absent in melanoma 2 inflammasome is beneficial to the host during F. novicida infection, type I IFN signaling by STING and IFN regulatory factor 3 is detrimental to the host during F. novicida infection.
Collectively, our studies indicate that cGAS and Ifi204 cooperate to sense cytosolic dsDNA and F. novicida infection to produce a strong type I IFN response.'] 
25581829 Currently the full-text not available Microbial DNA recognition by cGAS-STING and other sensors in dendritic cells in inflammatory bowel diseases.
Inflammatory bowel diseases ['Recognition of microbial nucleic acid initiates host immune defenses against pathogens.
Impaired recognition of nucleic acid is involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases.
In contrast to the relatively well-established mechanism of microbial RNA sensing and associated signaling cascades, very little is known on how microbial DNA activates intracellular DNA sensors and controls the function of antigen-presenting cells (especially dendritic cells) to shape mucosal immune responses in intestine.
In this review, we will introduce mucosal dendritic cell population, describe various putative DNA sensors, emphasize on newly identified cGAS-cGAMP-STING complex, and discuss how the detection of foreign DNA by mucosal dendritic cells activates innate and adaptive immune responses in intestine.
Finally, we will identify certain inflammatory bowel disease-susceptibility genes that associate with impaired microbial DNA recognition in human.'] 
27694309 Currently the full-text not available Activation of cGAS-dependent antiviral responses by DNA intercalating agents.
Nucleic acids research [StringElement('Acridine dyes, including proflavine and acriflavine, were commonly used as antiseptics before the advent of penicillins in the mid-1940s.
While their mode of action on pathogens was originally attributed to their DNA intercalating activity, work in the early 1970s suggested involvement of the host immune responses, characterized by induction of interferon (IFN)-like activities through an unknown mechanism.
We demonstrate here that sub-toxic concentrations of a mixture of acriflavine and proflavine instigate a cyclic-GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-dependent type-I IFN antiviral response.
This pertains to the capacity of these compounds to induce low level DNA damage and cytoplasmic DNA leakage, resulting in cGAS-dependent cGAMP-like activity.
Critically, acriflavine:proflavine pre-treatment of human primary bronchial epithelial cells significantly reduced rhinovirus infection.
Collectively, our findings constitute the first evidence that non-toxic DNA binding agents have the capacity to act as indirect agonists of cGAS, to exert potent antiviral effects in mammalian cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25942676 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4420275/pdf/
Overlapping Patterns of Rapid Evolution in the Nucleic Acid Sensors cGAS and OAS1 Suggest a Common Mechanism of Pathogen Antagonism and Escape.
PLoS genetics ["A diverse subset of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) detects pathogen-associated nucleic acids to initiate crucial innate immune responses in host organisms.
Reflecting their importance for host defense, pathogens encode various countermeasures to evade or inhibit these immune effectors.
PRRs directly engaged by pathogen inhibitors often evolve under recurrent bouts of positive selection that have been described as molecular 'arms races.'
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) was recently identified as a key PRR.
Upon binding cytoplasmic double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) from various viruses, cGAS generates the small nucleotide secondary messenger cGAMP to signal activation of innate defenses.
Here we report an evolutionary history of cGAS with recurrent positive selection in the primate lineage.
Recent studies indicate a high degree of structural similarity between cGAS and 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthase 1 (OAS1), a PRR that detects double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), despite low sequence identity between the respective genes.
We present comprehensive comparative evolutionary analysis of cGAS and OAS1 primate sequences and observe positive selection at nucleic acid binding interfaces and distributed throughout both genes.
Our data revealed homologous regions with strong signatures of positive selection, suggesting common mechanisms employed by unknown pathogen encoded inhibitors and similar modes of evasion from antagonism.
Our analysis of cGAS diversification also identified alternately spliced forms missing multiple sites under positive selection.
Further analysis of selection on the OAS family in primates, which comprises OAS1, OAS2, OAS3 and OASL, suggests a hypothesis where gene duplications and domain fusion events result in paralogs that provide another means of escaping pathogen inhibitors.
Together our comparative evolutionary analysis of cGAS and OAS provides new insights into distinct mechanisms by which key molecular sentinels of the innate immune system have adapted to circumvent viral-encoded inhibitors."] 
24782340 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4190646/pdf/
Keeping your armour intact: how HIV-1 evades detection by the innate immune system: HIV-1 capsid controls detection of reverse transcription products by the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS. BioEssays : news and reviews in molecular, cellular and developmental biology ['HIV-1 infects dendritic cells (DCs) without triggering an effective innate antiviral immune response.
As a consequence, the induction of adaptive immune responses controlling virus spread is limited.
In a recent issue of Immunity, Lahaye and colleagues show that intricate interactions of HIV capsid with the cellular cofactor cyclophilin A (CypA) control infection and innate immune activation in DCs.
Manipulation of HIV-1 capsid to increase its affinity for CypA results in reduced virus infectivity and facilitates access of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS to reverse transcribed DNA. This in turn induces a strong host response.
Here, we discuss these findings in the context of recent developments in innate immunity and consider the implications for disease control and vaccine design.'] 
26590319 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4685033
[AVAILABLE ON 01/01/17]/pdf/ A cGAS-Independent STING/IRF7 Pathway Mediates the Immunogenicity of DNA Vaccines.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['It has been known since the discovery of DNA vaccines >20 y ago that DNA vaccines can function as adjuvants.
Our recent study reported the involvement of Aim2 as the sensor of DNA vaccines in eliciting Ag-specific Ab responses.
Our findings indicated the presence of previously unrecognized innate immune response pathways in addition to the TLR9 pathway, which is mainly activated by the CpG motifs of DNA vaccines.
Our data further demonstrated the requirement of type I IFN in DNA vaccine-induced immune responses via the Aim2 pathway, but the exact downstream molecular mechanism was not characterized.
In the present study, we investigated the roles of the putative DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGas), as well as the downstream IFN regulatory factors (IRF) 3 and 7 in type I IFN induction and Ag-specific immune responses elicited by DNA vaccination.
Our results showed that DNA vaccine-induced, Irf7-dependent signaling, as part of the Sting pathway, was critical for generation of both innate cytokine signaling and Ag-specific B and T cell responses.
In contrast, Irf3 was not as critical as expected in this pathway and, more surprisingly, immune responses elicited by DNA vaccines were not cGas-dependent in vivo.
Data from this study provide more details on the innate immune mechanisms involved in DNA vaccination and further enrich our understanding on the potential utility of DNA vaccines in generating Ag-specific immune responses.'] 
23870141 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3782533/pdf/
The cGAS-STING pathway for DNA sensing.
Molecular cell ['The nucleotidyl transferase cGAS, its second-messenger product cGAMP, and the cGAMP sensor STING form the basic mechanism of DNA sensing in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells.
Several new reports now uncover key structural features associated with DNA recognition by cGAS and the catalytic mechanisms of cGAMP generation.
Concurrent studies also reveal unique phosphodiester linkages in endogenous cGAMP that distinguish it from microbial cGAMP and other cyclic dinucleotides.
Together, these studies provide a new perspective on DNA recognition in the innate immune system.'] 
24356864 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4621431/pdf/
Recognition of cytosolic DNA by cGAS and other STING-dependent sensors.
European journal of immunology ['The presence of DNA in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells is perceived as a danger signal, alerting the host to the presence of microbial infection.
In response to the detection of cytoplasmic DNA, the immune system mounts a programed response that involves the transcription of anti-viral genes such as type I interferons and production of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β.
The recent discovery of the cGAS-cGAMP second messenger pathway as well as IFI16 and additional sensors collectively provide critical insights into the molecular basis behind the sensing of cytoplasmic DNA.
The insights obtained from these important discoveries could unveil new avenues to understand host-immunity, improve vaccine adjuvancy, and allow development of new treatments for inflammatory diseases associated with abberrant sensing of DNA.'] 
23707061 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3800681/pdf/ Structure of human cGAS reveals a conserved family of second-messenger enzymes in innate immunity.
Cell reports ["Innate immune recognition of foreign nucleic acids induces protective interferon responses.
Detection of cytosolic DNA triggers downstream immune signaling through activation of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS).
We report here the crystal structure of human cGAS, revealing an unanticipated zinc-ribbon DNA-binding domain appended to a core enzymatic nucleotidyltransferase scaffold.
The catalytic core of cGAS is structurally homologous to the RNA-sensing enzyme, 2'-5' oligo-adenylate synthase (OAS), and divergent C-terminal domains account for specific ligand-activation requirements of each enzyme.
We show that the cGAS zinc ribbon is essential for STING-dependent induction of the interferon response and that conserved amino acids displayed within the intervening loops are required for efficient cytosolic DNA recognition.
These results demonstrate that cGAS and OAS define a family of innate immunity sensors and that structural divergence from a core nucleotidyltransferase enables second-messenger responses to distinct foreign nucleic acids."] 
24766893 Currently the full-text not available
The cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway of cytosolic DNA sensing and signaling.
Molecular cell ['The innate immune system deploys a variety of sensors to detect signs of infection.
Nucleic acids represent a major class of pathogen signatures that can trigger robust immune responses.
The presence of DNA in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells is a danger signal that activates innate immune responses; however, how cytosolic DNA triggers these responses remained unclear until recently.
In this review, we focus on the mechanism of DNA sensing by the newly discovered cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway and highlight recent progress in dissecting the in vivo functions of this pathway in immune defense as well as autoimmunity.'] 
24332024 Currently the full-text not available cGAS dimerization entangles DNA recognition.
Immunity ['Detection of foreign DNA in the cell cytosol triggers potent antiviral responses.
In this issue of Immunity, Li et al.
(2013) provide new structural and biochemical data indicating that a cytosolic DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), is activated by DNA-induced dimerization.'] 
26048138 Currently the full-text not available Mycobacterium tuberculosis Differentially Activates cGAS- and Inflammasome-Dependent Intracellular Immune Responses through ESX-1.
Cell host & microbe ['Cytosolic detection of microbial products is essential for the initiation of an innate immune response against intracellular pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb).
During Mtb infection of macrophages, activation of cytosolic surveillance pathways is dependent on the mycobacterial ESX-1 secretion system and leads to type I interferon (IFN) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) production.
Whereas the inflammasome regulates IL-1β secretion, the receptor(s) responsible for the activation of type I IFNs has remained elusive.
We demonstrate that the cytosolic DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is essential for initiating an IFN response to Mtb infection.
cGAS associates with Mtb DNA in the cytosol to stimulate cyclic GAMP (cGAMP) synthesis.
Notably, activation of cGAS-dependent cytosolic host responses can be uncoupled from inflammasome activation by modulating the secretion of ESX-1 substrates.
Our findings identify cGAS as an innate sensor of Mtb and provide insight into how ESX-1 controls the activation of specific intracellular recognition pathways.'] 
23707065 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3706192/pdf/
The innate immune DNA sensor cGAS produces a noncanonical cyclic dinucleotide that activates human STING. Cell reports ["The presence of foreign DNA in the cytosol of mammalian cells elicits a potent antiviral interferon response.
Recently, cytosolic DNA was proposed to induce the synthesis of cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) upon binding to an enzyme called cGAMP synthase (cGAS).
cGAMP activates an interferon response by binding to a downstream receptor called STING. Here, we identify natural variants of human STING (hSTING) that are poorly responsive to cGAMP yet,\xa0unexpectedly, are normally responsive to DNA and\xa0cGAS signaling.
We explain this paradox by demonstrating that the cGAS product is actually a noncanonical cyclic dinucleotide, cyclic [G(2'-5')pA(3'-5')p], which contains a single 2'-5' phosphodiester bond.
Cyclic [G(2'-5')pA(3'-5')p] potently activates diverse hSTING receptors and, therefore, may be a useful adjuvant or immunotherapeutic.
Our results indicate that hSTING variants have evolved to distinguish conventional (3'-5') cyclic dinucleotides, known to be produced mainly by bacteria, from the noncanonical cyclic dinucleotide produced by mammalian cGAS."] 
26867174 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4755325 [
AVAILABLE ON 02/10/17]/pdf/
The cGAS-STING Defense Pathway and Its Counteraction by Viruses.
Cell host & microbe ['Upon virus infection, host cells mount a concerted innate immune response involving type I interferon and pro-inflammatory cytokines to enable elimination of the pathogen.
Recently, cGAS and STING have been identified as intracellular sensors that activate the interferon pathway in response to virus infection and thus mediate host defense against a range of DNA and RNA viruses.
Here we review how viruses are sensed by the cGAS-STING signaling pathway as well as how viruses modulate this pathway.
Mechanisms utilized by viral proteins to inhibit cGAS and/or STING are also discussed.
On the flip side, host cells have also evolved strategies to thwart viral immune escape.
The balance between host immune control and viral immune evasion is pivotal to viral pathogenesis, and we discuss this virus-host stand-off in the context of the cGAS-STING innate immune pathway.'] 
20663522 Currently the full-text not available Clinical significance of polymorphism and expression of chromogranin a and endothelin-1 in prostate cancer.
The Journal of urology [StringElement('We investigated the clinical significance of chromogranin A and endothelin-1 polymorphism and expression in prostate cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('We analyzed 2 CHGA polymorphisms by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism in DNA samples of 435 patients with prostate cancer and 316 age matched male controls.
Chromogranin A and endothelin-1 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in prostate specimens of 114 men with prostate cancer who underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy and in 27 with bladder cancer who underwent radical cystectomy and served as controls.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIALS AND METHODS'}), StringElement('For the CHGA Glu264Asp polymorphism men with the GG genotype were at 2.05 times higher risk for prostate cancer than men with the CC genotype (p = 0.014).
In men with prostate cancer higher chromogranin A immunohistochemistry grade was associated with higher stage and higher Gleason score (p = 0.011 and 0.044, respectively).
Multivariate analysis showed that chromogranin
A immunohistochemistry grade was an independent variable for predicting biochemical failure after radical prostatectomy (p = 0.023).
Higher endothelin-1 expression was observed in prostate cancers (p = 0.011), especially those with a higher Gleason score (p = 0.042).
There was no significant relationship between chromogranin A polymorphisms, and chromogranin A and endothelin-1 expression.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Polymorphism and expression of chromogranin A and endothelin-1 have clinical significance in prostate cancer.
Chromogranin
A expression was an independent predictor of biochemical failure after prostatectomy in patients with localized prostate cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26223655
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4546858/pdf/ Cutting Edge:
cGAS Is Required for Lethal Autoimmune Disease in the Trex1-Deficient Mouse Model of Aicardi-Goutières Syndrome.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ["Detection of intracellular DNA triggers activation of the stimulator of IFN genes-dependent IFN-stimulatory DNA (ISD) pathway, which is essential for antiviral immune responses.
However, chronic activation of this pathway is implicated in autoimmunity.
Mutations in TREX1, a 3' repair exonuclease that degrades cytosolic DNA, cause Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and chilblain lupus.
Trex1 (-/-) mice develop lethal, IFN-driven autoimmune disease that is dependent on activation of the ISD pathway, but the DNA sensors that detect the endogenous DNA that accumulates in Trex1 (-/-) mice have not been defined.
Multiple DNA sensors have been proposed to activate the ISD pathway, including cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS).
In this study, we show that Trex1 (-/-) mice lacking cGAS are completely protected from lethality, exhibit dramatically reduced tissue inflammation, and fail to develop autoantibodies.
These findings implicate cGAS as a key driver of autoimmune disease and suggest that cGAS inhibitors may be useful therapeutics for Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and related autoimmune diseases."] 
23989956 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3863637/pdf/ Pivotal roles of cGAS-cGAMP signaling in antiviral defense and immune adjuvant effects.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['Invasion of microbial DNA into the cytoplasm of animal cells triggers a cascade of host immune reactions that help clear the infection; however, self DNA in the cytoplasm can cause autoimmune diseases.
Biochemical approaches led to the identification of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) as a cytosolic DNA sensor that triggers innate immune responses.
Here, we show that cells from cGAS-deficient (cGas(-/-)) mice, including fibroblasts, macrophages, and dendritic cells, failed to produce type I interferons and other cytokines in response to DNA transfection or DNA virus infection.
cGas(-/-) mice were more susceptible to lethal infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) than wild-type mice.
We also show that cGAMP is an adjuvant that boosts antigen-specific T cell activation and antibody production in mice.'] 
26355212 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4920077/pdf/ Blowing Off Steam: Virus Inhibition of cGAS DNA Sensing.
Cell host & microbe ['Detection of viral DNA is essential for eliciting mammalian innate immunity.
However, viruses have acquired effective mechanisms for blocking host defense.
Indeed, in this issue of Cell Host & Microbe, Wu et al.
(2015) discover a herpesviral strategy for inhibiting the prominent host sensor of viral DNA, cGAS.'] 
27705790 Currently the full-text not available HIV Triggers a cGAS-Dependent, Vpu- and Vpr-Regulated Type
I Interferon Response in CD4(+) T Cells.
Cell reports [StringElement('Several pattern-recognition receptors sense HIV-1 replication products and induce type I interferon (IFN-I) production under specific experimental conditions.
However, it is thought that viral sensing and IFN induction are virtually absent in the main target cells of HIV-1 in\xa0vivo.
Here, we show that activated CD4(+)
T\xa0cells sense HIV-1 infection through the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS and mount a bioactive IFN-I response.
Efficient induction of IFN-I by HIV-1 infection requires proviral integration and is regulated by\xa0newly expressed viral accessory proteins: Vpr potentiates, while Vpu suppresses cGAS-dependent IFN-I induction.
Furthermore, Vpr also amplifies innate sensing of HIV-1 infection in Vpx-treated dendritic cells.
Our results identify cGAS as mediator of an IFN-I response to HIV-1 infection in CD4(+)
T\xa0cells and demonstrate that this response is modulated by the viral accessory proteins Vpr and Vpu.
Thus, viral innate immune evasion is incomplete in the main target cells of HIV-1.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26311870 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4621133/pdf/ Knockout of cGAS and STING Rescues Virus Infection of Plasmid DNA-Transfected Cells.
Journal of virology ['It is well known that plasmid DNA transfection, prior to virus infection, negatively affects infection efficiency.
Here, we show that cytosolic plasmid DNA activates the cGAS/STING signaling pathway, which ultimately leads to the induction of an antiviral state of the cells.
Using a transient one-plasmid clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/Cas9 system, we generated cGAS/STING-knockout cells and show that these cells can be infected after plasmid DNA transfection as efficiently as nontransfected cells.'] 
24743339 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3990710/pdf/
Modified vaccinia virus Ankara triggers type I IFN production in murine conventional dendritic cells via a cGAS/STING-mediated cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway.
PLoS pathogens ['Modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) is an attenuated poxvirus that has been engineered as a vaccine against infectious agents and cancers.
Our goal is to understand how MVA modulates innate immunity in dendritic cells (DCs), which can provide insights to vaccine design.
In this study, using murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells, we assessed type I interferon (IFN) gene induction and protein secretion in response to MVA infection.
We report that MVA infection elicits the production of type I IFN in murine conventional dendritic cells (cDCs), but not in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs).
Transcription factors IRF3 (IFN regulatory factor 3) and IRF7, and the positive feedback loop mediated by IFNAR1 (IFN alpha/beta receptor 1), are required for the induction.
MVA induction of type I IFN is fully dependent on STING (stimulator of IFN genes) and the newly discovered cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase).
MVA infection of cDCs triggers phosphorylation of TBK1 (Tank-binding kinase 1) and IRF3, which is abolished in the absence of cGAS and STING.
Furthermore, intravenous delivery of MVA induces type I IFN in wild-type mice, but not in mice lacking STING or IRF3.
Treatment of cDCs with inhibitors of endosomal and lysosomal acidification or the lysosomal enzyme Cathepsin B attenuated MVA-induced type
I IFN production, indicating that lysosomal enzymatic processing of virions is important for MVA sensing.
Taken together, our results demonstrate a critical role of the cGAS/STING-mediated cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway for type I IFN induction in cDCs by MVA.
We present evidence that vaccinia virulence factors E3 and N1 inhibit the activation of IRF3 and the induction of IFNB gene in MVA-infected cDCs.'] 
26371324 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4620884/pdf/ Activation of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase by self-DNA causes autoimmune diseases.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['TREX1 is an exonuclease that digests DNA in the cytoplasm.
Loss-of-function mutations of TREX1 are linked to Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome (AGS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in humans.
Trex1(-/-) mice exhibit autoimmune and inflammatory phenotypes that are associated with elevated expression of interferon (IFN)-induced genes (ISGs).
Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP)
synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic DNA sensor that activates the IFN pathway.
Upon binding to DNA, cGAS is activated to catalyze the synthesis of cGAMP, which functions as a second messenger that binds and activates the adaptor protein STING to induce IFNs and other cytokines.
Here we show that genetic ablation of cGas in Trex1(-/-) mice eliminated all detectable pathological and molecular phenotypes, including ISG induction, autoantibody production, aberrant T-cell activation, and lethality.
Even deletion of just one allele of cGas largely rescued the phenotypes of Trex1(-/-) mice.
Similarly, deletion of cGas in mice lacking DNaseII, a lysosomal enzyme that digests DNA, rescued the lethal autoimmune phenotypes of the DNaseII(-/-) mice.
Through quantitative mass spectrometry, we found that cGAMP accumulated in mouse tissues deficient in Trex1 or DNaseII and that this accumulation was dependent on cGAS.
These results demonstrate that cGAS activation causes the autoimmune diseases in Trex1(-/-) and DNaseII(-/-) mice and suggest that inhibition of cGAS may lead to prevention and treatment of some human autoimmune diseases caused by self-DNA.'] 
26464144 Currently the full-text not available
The regional function of cGAS/STING signal in multiple organs: One of culprit behind systemic lupus erythematosus?
Medical hypotheses ['The systemic dysregulation of adaptive and innate immunity have been identified as major hallmark of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) pathogenesis that predominantly affects women.
Patients with SLE develop heterogeneous clinical manifestations which involve of multiple organ damage including renal, spleen, nervous system, joints and hematopoietic organs.
A high rate of cell death, e.g., NETosis, and clearance deficiencies by myeloid cells led to increased cell debris and accumulation of endogenous nucleic acids, and the presence of anti-nuclear antibodies (ANAs) derived from immune response can break of self-tolerance and exacerbate SLE pathology.
Currently, the nucleic acid receptors, such as Toll-like receptors, RIG-I-like receptors, AIM2-like receptors and IFI 200-family have been uncovered to be potential predisposing causes for SLE via triggering interferon (IFN) response and maturation of IL-1β.
Notably, as the newly found DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) can activate the stimulator of interferon genes (STING), which plays a pivotal role in DNA/RNA sensing pathway, for type I IFN and other inflammatory cytokines induction including IL-6 and attributes to STING-associated inflammatory disorders.
Interestingly, the elevated levels of IFN-α/β and IFN-stimulated genes were found in SLE patients than healthy individuals.
Given this, we propose a hypothesis that the cGAS-STING pathway in multiple organs function versatile and can facilitate overall disease progression of SLE though impertinent cytosolic self-DNA sensing.'] 
23722158 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4143541/pdf/ cGAS produces a 2'-5'-linked cyclic dinucleotide second messenger that activates STING. Nature ["Detection of cytoplasmic DNA represents one of the most fundamental mechanisms of the innate immune system to sense the presence of microbial pathogens.
Moreover, erroneous detection of endogenous DNA by the same sensing mechanisms has an important pathophysiological role in certain sterile inflammatory conditions.
The endoplasmic-reticulum-resident protein STING is critically required for the initiation of type I interferon signalling upon detection of cytosolic DNA of both exogenous and endogenous origin.
Next to its pivotal role in DNA sensing, STING also serves as a direct receptor for the detection of cyclic dinucleotides, which function as second messenger molecules in bacteria.
DNA recognition, however, is triggered in an indirect fashion that depends on a recently characterized cytoplasmic nucleotidyl transferase, termed cGAMP synthase (cGAS), which upon interaction with DNA synthesizes a dinucleotide molecule that in turn binds to and activates STING. We here show in vivo and in vitro that the cGAS-catalysed reaction product is distinct from previously characterized cyclic dinucleotides.
Using a combinatorial approach based on mass spectrometry, enzymatic digestion, NMR analysis and chemical synthesis we demonstrate that cGAS produces a cyclic GMP-AMP dinucleotide, which comprises a 2'-5' and a 3'-5' phosphodiester linkage >Gp(2'-5')Ap(3'-5')>. We found that the presence of this 2'-5' linkage was required to exert potent activation of human STING.
Moreover, we show that cGAS first catalyses the synthesis of a linear 2'-5'-linked dinucleotide, which is then subject to cGAS-dependent cyclization in a second step through a 3'-5' phosphodiester linkage.
This 13-membered ring structure defines a novel class of second messenger molecules, extending the family of 2'-5'-linked antiviral biomolecules."] 
26893169
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4762884/pdf/
Influenza
A virus targets a cGAS-independent STING pathway that controls enveloped RNA viruses.
Nature communications ['Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is known be involved in control of DNA viruses but has an unexplored role in control of RNA viruses.
During infection with DNA viruses STING is activated downstream of cGAMP synthase (cGAS) to induce type I interferon.
Here we identify a STING-dependent, cGAS-independent pathway important for full interferon production and antiviral control of enveloped RNA viruses, including influenza A virus (IAV).
Further, IAV interacts with STING through its conserved hemagglutinin fusion peptide (FP).
Interestingly, FP antagonizes interferon production induced by membrane fusion or IAV but not by cGAMP or DNA.
Similar to the enveloped RNA viruses, membrane fusion stimulates interferon production in a STING-dependent but cGAS-independent manner.
Abolishment of this pathway led to reduced interferon production and impaired control of enveloped RNA viruses.
Thus, enveloped RNA viruses stimulate a cGAS-independent STING pathway, which is targeted by IAV.'] 
25033909 Currently the full-text not available OAS proteins and cGAS: unifying concepts in sensing and responding to cytosolic nucleic acids.
Nature reviews.
Immunology ["
Recent discoveries in the field of innate immunity have highlighted the existence of a family of nucleic acid-sensing proteins that have similar structural and functional properties.
These include the well-known oligoadenylate synthase (OAS) family proteins and the recently identified OAS homologue cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS).
The OAS proteins and cGAS are template-independent nucleotidyltransferases that, once activated by double-stranded nucleic acids in the cytosol, produce unique classes of 2'-5'-linked second messenger molecules, which - through distinct mechanisms - have crucial antiviral functions.
2'-5'-linked oligoadenylates limit viral propagation through the activation of the enzyme RNase L, which degrades host and viral RNA, and 2'-5'-linked cGAMP activates downstream signalling pathways to induce de novo antiviral gene expression.
In this Progress article, we describe the striking functional and structural similarities between OAS proteins and cGAS, and highlight their roles in antiviral immunity."] 
27154323 Currently the full-text not available
The role of cGAS in innate immunity and beyond.
Journal of molecular medicine (Berlin, Germany) [StringElement('The sensing of foreign DNA is crucial for host defense against several pathogens.
In the cytosol the enzyme cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is critical for the recognition of pathogen-derived DNA and provides key signals that initiate immune responses.
Beyond infection, accumulating evidence indicates that cGAS is also active during autoimmune diseases and controls immune responses that underlie cancer immunosurveillance.
In this review, we highlight our current understanding of DNA sensing by cGAS and its involvement in human disease.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25592282 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4296288/pdf/
Mesenchymal stem cells detect and defend against gammaherpesvirus infection via the cGAS-STING pathway.
Scientific reports ['Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are widely used in clinical settings to treat tissue injuries and autoimmune disorders due to their multipotentiality and immunomodulation.
Long-term observations reveal several complications after MSCs infusion, especially herpesviral infection.
However, the mechanism of host defense against herpesviruses in MSCs remains largely unknown.
Here we showed that murine gammaherpesvirus-68 (MHV-68), which is genetically and biologically related to human gammaherpesviruses, efficiently infected MSCs both in vitro and in vivo.
Cytosolic DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) was identified as the sensor of MHV-68 in MSCs for the first time.
Moreover, the cytosolic DNA sensing pathway mediated a potent anti-herpesviral effect through the adaptor STING and downstream kinase TBK1.
Furthermore, blockade of IFN signaling suggested that cytosolic DNA sensing triggered both IFN-dependent and -independent anti-herpesviral responses.
Our findings demonstrate that cGAS-STING mediates innate immunity to gammaherpesvirus infection in MSCs, which may provide a clue to develop therapeutic strategy.'] 
25525240 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4391621/pdf/
MAVS, cGAS, and endogenous retroviruses in T-independent B cell responses.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['Multivalent molecules with repetitive structures including bacterial capsular polysaccharides and viral capsids elicit antibody responses through B cell receptor (BCR) crosslinking in the absence of T cell help.
We report that immunization with these T cell-independent type 2 (TI-2) antigens causes up-regulation of endogenous retrovirus (ERV) RNAs in antigen-specific mouse B cells.
These RNAs are detected via a mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS)-dependent RNA sensing pathway or reverse-transcribed and detected via the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway, triggering a second, sustained wave of signaling that promotes specific immunoglobulin M production.
Deficiency of both MAVS and cGAS, or treatment of MAVS-deficient mice with reverse transcriptase inhibitors, dramatically inhibits TI-2 antibody responses.
These findings suggest that ERV and two innate sensing pathways that detect them are integral components of the TI-2 B cell signaling apparatus.'] 
27334590 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4988162 [
AVAILABLE ON 02/12/17]/pdf/
cGAS-STING Signaling Regulates Initial Innate Control of Cytomegalovirus Infection.
Journal of virology [StringElement('Several innate sensing pathways contribute to the control of early cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, leading to a multiphasic type I interferon (IFN-I) response that limits viral replication and promotes host defenses.
Toll-like receptor (TLR)-dependent pathways induce IFN-I production in CMV-infected plasmacytoid dendritic cells; however, the initial burst of IFN-I that occurs within the first few hours in vivo is TLR independent and emanates from stromal cells.
Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses to human CMV that are dependent upon cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), STING, and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) signaling.
Disruption of STING expression in endothelial cells by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-Cas9 revealed that it is essential for the induction of IFN-I and restriction of CMV replication.
Consistently, STING was necessary to mount the first phase of IFN-I production and curb CMV replication in infected mice.
Thus, DNA sensing through STING is critical for primary detection of both human and mouse CMV in nonhematopoietic cells and drives the initial wave of IFN-I that is key for controlling early viral replication in vivo', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the most common viral pathogens, with the majority of people contracting the virus in their lifetime.
Although acute infection is mostly asymptomatic in healthy persons, significant pathology is observed in immunocompromised individuals, and chronic CMV infection may exacerbate a myriad of inflammatory conditions.
Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses against CMV via a cGAS/STING/IRF3 pathway.
Disruption of STING expression by CRISPRs revealed an essential role in eliciting IFN-I responses and restricting CMV replication.
Consistently, in mice, STING is necessary for the first phase of IFN-I production that limits early CMV replication.
Our results demonstrate a pivotal role for the cGAS-STING pathway in the initial detection of CMV infection.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
24970844 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4194099/pdf/
Listeria monocytogenes induces IFNβ expression through an IFI16-, cGAS- and STING-dependent pathway.
The EMBO journal ['Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterium, which replicates in the cytoplasm of myeloid cells.
Interferon β (IFNβ) has been reported to play an important role in the mechanisms underlying Listeria disease.
Although studies in murine cells have proposed the bacteria-derived cyclic-di-AMP to be the key bacterial immunostimulatory molecule, the mechanism for IFNβ expression during L. monocytogenes infection in human myeloid cells remains unknown.
Here we report that in human macrophages, Listeria DNA rather than cyclic-di-AMP is stimulating the IFN response via a pathway dependent on the DNA sensors IFI16 and cGAS as well as the signalling adaptor molecule STING.
Thus, Listeria DNA is a major trigger of IFNβ expression in human myeloid cells and is sensed to activate a pathway dependent on IFI16, cGAS and STING.'] 
26046437 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4503237/pdf/
PQBP1 Is a Proximal Sensor of the cGAS-Dependent Innate Response to HIV-1.
Cell ['Dendritic cells (DCs) play a critical role in the immune response to viral infection through the facilitation of cell-intrinsic antiviral activity and the activation of adaptive immunity.
HIV-1 infection of DCs triggers an IRF3-dependent innate immune response, which requires the activity of cyclic GAMP synthase (cGAS).
We report the results of a targeted RNAi screen utilizing primary human monocyte-derived DCs (MDDCs) to identify immune regulators that directly interface with HIV-1-encoded features to initiate this innate response.
Polyglutamine binding protein 1 (PQBP1) emerged as a strong candidate through this analysis.
We found that PQBP1 directly binds to reverse-transcribed HIV-1 DNA and interacts with cGAS to initiate an IRF3-dependent innate\xa0response.
MDDCs derived from Renpenning syndrome patients, who harbor mutations in the PQBP1 locus, possess a severely attenuated innate immune response to HIV-1 challenge, underscoring the role of PQBP1 as a proximal innate sensor of a HIV-1 infection.'] 
24269171 Currently the full-text not available The capsids of HIV-1 and HIV-2 determine immune detection of the viral cDNA by the innate sensor cGAS in dendritic cells.
Immunity ['HIV-2 is less pathogenic for humans than HIV-1 and might provide partial cross-protection from HIV-1-induced pathology.
Although both viruses replicate in the T cells of infected patients, only HIV-2 replicates efficiently in dendritic cells (DCs) and activates innate immune pathways.
How HIV is sensed in DC is unknown.
Capsid-mutated HIV-2 revealed that sensing by the host requires viral cDNA synthesis, but not nuclear entry or genome integration.
The HIV-1 capsid prevented viral cDNA sensing up to integration, allowing the virus to escape innate recognition.
In contrast, DCs sensed capsid-mutated HIV-1 and enhanced stimulation of T cells in the absence of productive infection.
Finally, we found that DC sensing of HIV-1 and HIV-2 required the DNA sensor cGAS.
Thus, the HIV capsid is a determinant of innate sensing of the viral cDNA by cGAS in dendritic cells.
This pathway might potentially be harnessed to develop effective vaccines against HIV-1.'] 
26300263 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4575873/pdf/
Ancient Origin of cGAS-STING Reveals Mechanism of Universal 2',3' cGAMP Signaling.
Molecular cell [
"In humans, the cGAS-STING immunity pathway signals in response to cytosolic DNA via 2',3' cGAMP, a cyclic dinucleotide (CDN) second messenger containing mixed 2'-5' and 3'-5' phosphodiester bonds.
Prokaryotes also produce CDNs, but these are exclusively 3' linked, and thus the evolutionary origins of human 2',3' cGAMP signaling are unknown.
Here we\xa0illuminate the ancient origins of human cGAMP signaling by discovery of a functional cGAS-STING pathway in Nematostella vectensis, an anemone species >500 million years diverged from humans.
Anemone cGAS appears to produce a 3',3' CDN that anemone STING recognizes through nucleobase-specific contacts not observed in human STING.
Nevertheless, anemone STING binds mixed-linkage 2',3' cGAMP indistinguishably from human STING, trapping a unique structural conformation not induced by 3',3' CDNs.
These results reveal that human mixed-linkage cGAMP achieves universal signaling by exploiting a deeply conserved STING conformational intermediate, providing critical insight for therapeutic targeting of the STING pathway."] 
24284630 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4077721/pdf/ Pan-viral specificity of IFN-induced genes reveals new roles for cGAS in innate immunity.
Nature ['The type I interferon (IFN) response protects cells from viral infection by inducing hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), some of which encode direct antiviral effectors.
Recent screening studies have begun to catalogue ISGs with antiviral activity against several RNA and DNA viruses.
However, antiviral ISG specificity across multiple distinct classes of viruses remains largely unexplored.
Here we used an ectopic expression assay to screen a library of more than 350 human ISGs for effects on 14 viruses representing 7 families and 11 genera.
We show that 47 genes inhibit one or more viruses, and 25 genes enhance virus infectivity.
Comparative analysis reveals that the screened ISGs target positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses more effectively than negative-sense single-stranded RNA viruses.
Gene clustering highlights the cytosolic DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS, also known as MB21D1) as a gene whose expression also broadly inhibits several RNA viruses.
In vitro, lentiviral delivery of enzymatically active cGAS triggers a STING-dependent, IRF3-mediated antiviral program that functions independently of canonical IFN/STAT1 signalling.
In vivo, genetic ablation of murine cGAS reveals its requirement in the antiviral response to two DNA viruses, and an unappreciated contribution to the innate control of an RNA virus.
These studies uncover new paradigms for the preferential specificity of IFN-mediated antiviral pathways spanning several virus families.'] 
25914935 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4947819/pdf/
Neutrophil sensing of cytoplasmic, pathogenic DNA in a cGAS-STING-independent manner.
Cellular & molecular immunology 
17438105 Currently the full-text not available A novel chromogranin-A promoter-driven oncolytic adenovirus for midgut carcinoid therapy.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research [StringElement('The use of replication-selective oncolytic adenoviruses is an emerging therapeutic approach for cancer, which thus far has not been employed for carcinoids.
We therefore constructed Ad[CgA-E1A], a novel replication-selective oncolytic adenovirus, where the chromogranin A (CgA) promoter controls expression of the adenoviral E1A gene.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('The Ad[CgA-E1A] virus was evaluated for E1A protein expression, replication ability, and cytolytic activity in various cell lines.
It was also evaluated for treatment of xenografted human carcinoid tumors in nude mice.
To use Ad[CgA-E1A] for the treatment of carcinoid liver metastases, it is important that normal hepatocytes do not support virus replication to minimize hepatotoxicity.
We therefore evaluated CgA protein expression in normal hepatocytes.
We also evaluated CgA gene expression in normal hepatocytes and microdissected tumor cells from carcinoid metastases.',
attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN'}), StringElement('We found that Ad[CgA-E1A] replicates similarly to wild-type virus in tumor cells with neuroendocrine features, including the BON carcinoid cell line and the SH-SY-5Y neuroblastoma cell lines, whereas it is attenuated in other cell types.
Thus, cells where the CgA promoter is active are selectively killed.
We also found that Ad[CgA-E1A] is able to suppress fast-growing human BON carcinoid tumors in nude mice.
Furthermore, CgA is highly expressed in microdissected cells from carcinoid metastases, whereas it is not expressed in normal hepatocytes.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Ad[CgA-E1A] is an interesting agent for the treatment of carcinoid liver metastases in conjunction with standard therapy for these malignancies.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
27002845 Currently the full-text not available Erratum: Glutamylation of the DNA sensor
cGAS regulates its binding and synthase activity in antiviral immunity.
Nature immunology 
24332030 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3886715/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase is activated by double-stranded DNA-induced oligomerization.
Immunity
["Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic DNA sensor mediating innate antimicrobial immunity.
It catalyzes the synthesis of a noncanonical cyclic dinucleotide, 2',5' cGAMP, that binds to STING and mediates the activation of TBK1 and IRF-3.
Activated IRF-3 translocates to the nucleus and initiates the transcription of the IFN-β gene.
The structure of mouse cGAS bound to an 18 bp dsDNA revealed that cGAS interacts with dsDNA through two binding sites, forming a 2:2 complex.
Enzyme assays and IFN-β reporter assays of cGAS mutants demonstrated that interactions at both DNA binding sites are essential for cGAS activation.
Mutagenesis and DNA binding studies showed that the two sites bind dsDNA cooperatively and that site B plays a critical role in DNA binding.
The structure of mouse cGAS bound to dsDNA and 2',5' cGAMP provided insight into the catalytic mechanism of cGAS. These results demonstrated that cGAS is activated by dsDNA-induced oligomerization."] 
27736643 Currently the full-text not available cGAS-Mediated Innate Immunity Spreads Intercellularly through HIV-1 Env-Induced Membrane Fusion Sites.
Cell host & microbe [StringElement('Upon sensing cytoplasmic retroviral DNA in infected cells, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) produces the cyclic dinucleotide cGAMP, which activates STING to trigger a type I interferon (IFN) response.
We find that membrane fusion-inducing contact between donor cells expressing the HIV envelope (Env) and primary macrophages endogenously expressing the HIV receptor CD4 and coreceptor enable intercellular transfer of cGAMP.
This cGAMP exchange results in STING-dependent antiviral IFN responses in target macrophages and protection from HIV infection.
Furthermore, under conditions allowing cell-to-cell transmission of HIV-1, infected primary T\xa0cells, but not cell-free virions, deliver cGAMP to autologous macrophages through HIV-1 Env and CD4/coreceptor-mediated membrane fusion sites and induce a STING-dependent, but cGAS-independent, IFN response in target cells.
Collectively, these findings identify an infection-specific mode of horizontal transfer of cGAMP between primary immune cells that may boost antiviral responses, particularly in infected tissues in which cell-to-cell transmission of virions exceeds cell-free infection.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26903602 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4855687/pdf/ Ribonuclease H2 mutations induce a cGAS/STING-dependent innate immune response.
The EMBO journal ['Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS) provides a monogenic model of nucleic acid-mediated inflammation relevant to the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmunity.
Mutations that impair ribonuclease (RNase) H2 enzyme function are the most frequent cause of this autoinflammatory disorder of childhood and are also associated with systemic lupus erythematosus.
Reduced processing of eitherRNA:DNAhybrid or genome-embedded ribonucleotide substrates is thought to lead to activation of a yet undefined nucleic acid-sensing pathway.
Here, we establishRnaseh2b(A174T/A174T)knock-in mice as a subclinical model of disease, identifying significant interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) transcript upregulation that recapitulates theISGsignature seen inAGSpatients.
The inflammatory response is dependent on the nucleic acid sensor cyclicGMP-AMPsynthase (cGAS) and its adaptorSTINGand is associated with reduced cellular ribonucleotide excision repair activity and increasedDNAdamage.
This suggests thatcGAS/STINGis a key nucleic acid-sensing pathway relevant toAGS, providing additional insight into disease pathogenesis relevant to the development of therapeutics for this childhood-onset interferonopathy and adult systemic autoimmune disorders.'] 
27477283 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4978700/pdf/ Restriction by SAMHD1 Limits cGAS/STING-Dependent Innate and Adaptive Immune Responses to HIV-1.
Cell reports ['SAMHD1 is a restriction factor for HIV-1 infection.
SAMHD1 mutations cause the autoinflammatory Aicardi-Goutières syndrome that is characterized by chronic type I interferon (IFN) secretion.
We show that the spontaneous IFN response in SAMHD1-deficient cells and mice requires the cGAS/STING cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway.
We provide genetic evidence that cell-autonomous control of lentivirus infection in myeloid cells by SAMHD1 limits virus-induced production of IFNs and the induction of co-stimulatory markers.
This program of myeloid cell activation required reverse transcription, cGAS and STING, and signaling through the IFN receptor.
Furthermore, SAMHD1 reduced the induction of virus-specific cytotoxic T\xa0cells in\xa0vivo.
Therefore, virus restriction by SAMHD1 limits the magnitude of IFN and T\xa0cell responses.
This demonstrates a competition between cell-autonomous virus control and subsequent innate and adaptive immune responses, a concept with important implications for the treatment of infection.'] 
26067600 Currently the full-text not available Mycobacterium tuberculosis Meets the Cytosol: The Role of cGAS in Anti-mycobacterial Immunity.
Cell host & microbe ['The intracellular fate of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a subject of long debate.
In this issue of Cell Host & Microbe, three independent studies reveal the detection of cytosolic mycobacterial DNA by the nucleotidyltransferase cGAS, emphasizing the concept of cytosolic access by M. tuberculosis and its role in balancing immune-protection and immune-pathogenesis.'] 
25070851 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4212656/pdf/
The DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase, is essential for induction of IFN-β during Chlamydia trachomatis infection.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ["IFN-β has been implicated as an effector of oviduct pathology resulting from genital chlamydial infection in the mouse model.
In this study, we investigated the role of cytosolic DNA and engagement of DNA sensors in IFN-β expression during chlamydial infection.
We determined that three-prime repair exonuclease-1, a host 3' to 5' exonuclease, reduced IFN-β expression significantly during chlamydial infection using small interfering RNA and gene knockout fibroblasts, implicating cytosolic DNA as a ligand for this response.
The DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) has been shown to bind cytosolic DNA to generate cyclic GMP-AMP, which binds to the signaling adaptor stimulator of IFN genes (STING) to induce IFN-β expression.
We determined that cGAS is required for IFN-β expression during chlamydial infection in multiple cell types.
Interestingly, although infected cells deficient for STING or cGAS alone failed to induce IFN-β, coculture of cells depleted for either STING or cGAS rescued IFN-β expression.
These data demonstrate that cyclic GMP-AMP produced in infected cGAS(+)STING(-) cells can migrate into adjacent cells via gap junctions to function in trans in cGAS(-)STING(+) cells.
Furthermore, we observed cGAS localized in punctate regions on the cytosolic side of the chlamydial inclusion membrane in association with STING, indicating that chlamydial DNA is most likely recognized outside the inclusion as infection progresses.
These novel findings provide evidence that cGAS-mediated DNA sensing directs IFN-β expression during Chlamydia trachomatis infection and suggest that effectors from infected cells can directly upregulate IFN-β expression in adjacent uninfected cells during in vivo infection, contributing to pathogenesis."
] 
15969121 Currently the full-text not available [Expression of N domain of chromogranin A in Bacillus subtilis and its antifungal activity].
Sheng wu gong cheng xue bao = Chinese journal of biotechnology ['Chromogranin A (CGA) is a soluble protein existed in most secreted cells and neurons.
It was recently found that the bovine CGA N terminal region has vasoinhibitory, antibacterial and antifungal activities.
Since the need for effective antifungal agents increases in parallel with the expanding number of immunocompromised patients at risk for fungal infections, it becomes imperative to find antifungal compounds with low toxicity toward mammalian cells.
To study the antifungal activity of CGA N terminal region, the DNA fragment encoding for the N terminal 1-76 amino acid sequence (CGA1-76) of human CGA was amplified by PCR technique.
After DNA sequence analysis, the amplified DNA fragment was cloned into the Bacillus subtilis inducible and expression vector pSBPTQ constructed in this study and the resultant plasmid pSVTQ was then transformed into triple-protease deficient Bacillus subtilis strain DB403 competent cells.
The transformants was screened on LB plates containing 10 microg/mL kanamycin.
The positive transformant DB403 (pSVTQ) was grown on kanmycin containing 2 x MSR medium and sucrose was added to 2% final concentration for induction after 2h cultivation.
The culture supernatant was used to run SDS-PAGE.
The result of SDS-PAGE showed that the CGA1-76 was expressed by sucrose induction and the expressed product secreted into the medium with a yield of 5 mg/L. The expressed product reacts specifically with mouse anti CGA47-68 monoclonal antibody.
The antifungal activity of the expressed product was examined by adding the culture supernatant to the fungal spore or Candida albican suspensions at appropriate proportion and found that the recombinant human CGA1-76 produced in Bacillus subtilis inhibits the growth of Fusarium sp.
Alternaria sp.
and Candida albican at the concerntration of 4 micromol/L.
These results demonstrate that human CGA1-76 has expressed in Bacillus subtilis and the expressed product is immunogenic and has the antifungal activity.'] 
17929277 Currently the full-text not available Human prostate cancer cells express neuroendocrine cell markers PGP 9.5 and chromogranin A.
The Prostate [StringElement('A proportion of men with prostate cancer will progress to develop metastatic disease involving the lymph-nodes and bone.
To identify novel candidates associated with metastatic progression, we compared the proteomic profiles of LNCaP (lymph-node metastatic, androgen-dependant) and PC-3 (bone metastatic, androgen-independent), human prostate cancer cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE), followed by electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS), was used to identify differentially expressed proteins.
Western blotting was used to validate the identity of any candidates.
Immunohistochemistry was used to assess tissue expression.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('2D-PAGE followed by ESI-MS/MS analyses identified the expression of glutathione S-transferase-pi (GST-pi) and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) in PC-3 cells, but absent expression in LNCaP cells.
PGP 9.5 expression in PC-3 cells was confirmed by Western blotting, in addition to expression in DU145 cells.
Analysis of cell conditioned media showed that PGP 9.5 was secreted.
Sequencing of the PGP 9.5 gene promoter region in bisulfite modified DNA, suggested that the regulation of expression involves promoter hypermethylation.
RT-PCR analysis for Chromogranin A (ChA) mRNA (a marker of neuroendocrine cells), showed expression in PC-3 and DU145 cells but was undetectable in LNCaP cells.
Immunohistochemistry localised PGP 9.5 expression exclusively within neuroendocrine cells and nerve fibres.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Our unexpected finding that the neuroendocrine cell markers PGP 9.5 and ChA are expressed by PC-3 and DU145 cells, suggests that these cells may have been derived from metastatic adenocarcinomas which had undergone neuroendocrine differentiation or alternatively the expression occurred ectopically as a result of cell culture.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26382862 Currently the full-text not available Reading the fine print: sequence-specific activation of cGAS. Nature immunology 
17340624 Currently the full-text not available Inducible cAMP early repressor splice variants ICER I and IIgamma both repress transcription of c-fos and chromogranin A. Journal of cellular biochemistry ['Inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER) splice variants are generated upon activation of an alternative, intronic promoter within the CREM gene.
ICER is proposed to downregulate both its own expression, and the expression of other genes, containing cAMP-responsive promoter elements.
To examine the biological function of the two ICER splice variants, I and IIgamma, in comparable cellular systems, we generated HEK 293 cell variants with controllable overexpression of either ICER I or IIgamma.
These two splice variants contain two different variants of DNA binding domains.
Overexpression of either ICER
I or IIgamma strongly represses CRE-driven reportergene transcription but not AP1- or NFkappaB-driven transcription.
Thus, high specificity is maintained even at ICER overexpression.
We here show that both ICER I and IIgamma repress Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)-mediated c-fos mRNA induction with similar efficiency, indicating that both splice variants play an important role in modulating PACAP-mediated transcriptional activation of the c-fos gene.
ICER I and IIgamma also repress cAMP-mediated activation of chromogranin A (CgA), indicating that these splice variants may function as negative feedback regulators in CgA synthesis.
The proliferation rate was not altered in cells overexpressing ICER
I or IIgamma.
Thus, in the epithelial cells HEK 293, ICER I and IIgamma splice variants seem to exert similar biological function.'] 
27002833 Currently the full-text not available ReGLUation of cGAS. Nature immunology 
15582712 Currently the full-text not available eNOS, nNOS, cGMP and protein kinase G mediate the inhibitory effect of pancreastatin, a chromogranin A-derived peptide, on growth and proliferation of hepatoma cells.
Regulatory peptides ['Pancreastatin (PST), a chromogranin A-derived peptide, has an anti-insulin metabolic effect and inhibits growth and proliferation by producing nitric oxide (NO) in HTC rat hepatoma cells.
When NO production is blocked, a proliferative effect prevails due to the activation a Galphaq/11-phospholipase C-beta (PLC-beta) pathway, which leads to an increase in [Ca2+]i, protein kinase C (PKC) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the NO synthase (NOS) isoform that mediates these effects of PST on HTC hepatoma cells and the possible roles of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and cGMP-dependent protein kinase.
DNA and protein synthesis in response to PST were measured as [3H]-thymidine and [3H]-leucine incorporation in the presence of various pharmacological inhibitors: N-monomethyl-L-arginine (NMLA, nonspecific NOS inhibitor), L-NIO (endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) inhibitor), espermidine (neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor), LY83583 (guanylyl cyclase inhibitor), and KT5823 (protein kinase G inhibitor, (PKG)).
L-NIO, similarly to NMLA, reverted the inhibitory effect of PST on hepatoma cell into a stimulatory effect on growth and proliferation.
Nevertheless, espermidine also prevented the inhibitory effect of PST, but there was no stimulation of growth and proliferation.
When guanylyl cyclase activity was blocked, there was again a reversion of the inhibitory effect into a stimulatory action, suggesting that the effect of NO was mediated by the production of cGMP. PKG inhibition prevented the inhibitory effect of PST, but there was no stimulatory effect.
Therefore, the inhibitory effect of PST on growth and proliferation of hepatoma cells may be mainly mediated by eNOS activation.
In turn, the effect of NO may be mediated by cGMP, whereas other pathways in addition to PKG activation seem to mediate the inhibition of DNA and protein synthesis by PST in HTC hepatoma cells.'] 
11495046 Currently the full-text not available Pancreastatin, a chromogranin A-derived peptide, inhibits DNA and protein synthesis by producing nitric oxide in HTC rat hepatoma cells.
Journal of hepatology [StringElement('Pancreastatin, a chromogranin A-derived peptide, has a counter-regulatory effect on insulin action.
We have previously characterized pancreastatin receptor and signalling in rat liver and HTC hepatoma cells.
A G alpha(q/11)-PLC-beta pathway leads to an increase in [Ca2+]i, PKC and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation.
These data suggested that pancreastatin might have a role in growth and proliferation, similar to other calcium-mobilizing hormones.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND/AIMS'}), StringElement('DNA and protein synthesis were measured as [3H]-thymidine and [3H]-leucine incorporation.
Nitric oxide (NO) was determined by the Griess method and cGMP production was quantified by enzyme-linked immunoassay.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Contrary to the expected results, we have found that pancreastatin inhibits protein and DNA synthesis in HTC hepatoma cells.
On the other hand, when the activity of NO synthase was inhibited by N-monomethyl-L-arginine (NMLA), the inhibitory effect of pancreastatin on DNA and protein synthesis was not only reverted, but a dose-dependent stimulatory effect was observed, probably due to MAPK activation, since it was prevented by PD98059.
These data strongly suggested the role of NO in the inhibitory effect of pancreastatin on protein and DNA synthesis, which is overcoming the effect on MAPK activation.
Moreover, pancreastatin dose-dependently increased NO production in parallel to cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP).
Both effects were prevented by NMLA.
Finally, an indirect effect of pancreastatin through the induction of apoptosis was ruled out.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Therefore, the NO and the cGMP produced by the NO-activated guanylate cyclase may mediate the dose-dependent inhibitory effect of pancreastatin on growth and proliferation in HTC hepatoma cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26754564 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4709567/pdf/
Antitumor Activity of cGAMP via Stimulation of cGAS-cGAMP-STING-IRF3 Mediated Innate Immune Response.
Scientific reports ['Immunotherapy is one of the key strategies for cancer treatment.
The cGAS-cGAMP-STING-IRF3 pathway of cytosolic DNA sensing plays a pivotal role in antiviral defense.
We report that the STING activator cGAMP possesses significant antitumor activity in mice by triggering the STING-dependent pathway directly.
cGAMP enhances innate immune responses by inducing production of cytokines such as interferon-β, interferon-γ, and stimulating dendritic cells activation, which induces the cross-priming of CD8(+) T cells.
The antitumor mechanism of cGAMP was verified by STING and IRF3, which were up-regulated upon cGAMP treatment.
STING-deficiency dramatically reduced the antitumor effect of cGAMP.
Furthermore, cGAMP improved the antitumor activity of 5-FU, and clearly reduced the toxicity of 5-FU. These results demonstrated that cGAMP is a novel antitumor agent and has potential applications in cancer immunotherapy.'] 
27009954 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4934757
[AVAILABLE ON 11/12/16]/pdf/ Kaposi's Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus Inhibitor of cGAS (KicGAS), Encoded by ORF52, Is an Abundant Tegument Protein and Is Required for Production of Infectious Progeny Viruses.
Journal of virology [StringElement("Although Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) ORF52 (also known as KSHV inhibitor of cGAS [KicGAS]) has been detected in purified virions, the roles of this protein during KSHV replication have not been characterized.
Using specific monoclonal antibodies, we revealed that ORF52 displays true late gene expression kinetics and confirmed its cytoplasmic localization in both transfected and KSHV-infected cells.
We demonstrated that ORF52 comigrates with other known virion proteins following sucrose gradient centrifugation.
We also determined that ORF52 resides inside the viral envelope and remains partially associated with capsid when extracellular virions are treated with various detergents and/or salts.
There results indicate that ORF52 is a tegument protein abundantly present in extracellular virions.
To characterize the roles of ORF52 in the KSHV life cycle, we engineered a recombinant KSHV ORF52-null mutant virus and found that loss of ORF52 results in reduced virion production and a further defect in infectivity.
Upon analysis of the virion composition of ORF52-null viral particles, we observed a decrease in the incorporation of ORF45, as well as other tegument proteins, suggesting that ORF52 is important for the packaging of other virion proteins.
In summary, our results indicate that, in addition to its immune evasion function, KSHV ORF52 is required for the optimal production of infectious virions, likely due to its roles in virion assembly as a tegument protein.", attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement("The tegument proteins of herpesviruses, including Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), play key roles in the viral life cycle.
Each of the three subfamilies of herpesviruses (alpha, beta, and gamma) encode unique tegument proteins with specialized functions.
We recently found that one such gammaherpesvirus-specific protein, ORF52, has an important role in immune evasion during KSHV primary infection, through inhibition of the host cytosolic DNA sensing pathway.
In this report, we further characterize ORF52 as a tegument protein with vital roles during KSHV lytic replication.
We found that ORF52 is important for the production of infectious viral particles, likely through its role in virus assembly, a critical process for KSHV replication and pathogenesis.
More comprehensive investigation of the functions of tegument proteins and their roles in viral replication may reveal novel targets for therapeutic interventions against KSHV-associated diseases."
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
23722515 Currently the full-text not available Monoclonality of composite large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and invasive intestinal-type mucinous adenocarcinoma of the cervix: a case study.
International journal of gynecological pathology : official journal of the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists
['A rare case of mixed carcinoma of the cervix is reported, composed of a large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and an invasive intestinal-type mucinous adenocarcinoma.
The large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma was composed of solid nests, sheets, and trabeculae of medium-sized to large-sized cells, and was positive for chromogranin-A and CD56.
The invasive intestinal-type mucinous adenocarcinoma showed sparsely scattered immunoreactivity for chromogranin-A. Using an X-chromosome clonality assay, these 2 components showed patterns of monoclonality.
These results suggest that the large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma may have arisen from the invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma.'] 
26506431 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4624778/pdf/ TRIM21 Promotes cGAS and RIG-
I Sensing of Viral Genomes during Infection by Antibody-Opsonized Virus.
PLoS pathogens ['Encapsidation is a strategy almost universally employed by viruses to protect their genomes from degradation and from innate immune sensors.
We show that TRIM21, which targets antibody-opsonized virions for proteasomal destruction, circumvents this protection, enabling the rapid detection and degradation of viral genomes before their replication.
TRIM21 triggers an initial wave of cytokine transcription that is antibody, rather than pathogen, driven.
This early response is augmented by a second transcriptional program, determined by the nature of the infecting virus.
In this second response, TRIM21-induced exposure of the viral genome promotes sensing of DNA and RNA viruses by cGAS and RIG-I.
This mechanism allows early detection of an infection event and drives an inflammatory response in mice within hours of viral challenge.'] 
25477253 Currently the full-text not available Cell-free tumor microparticle vaccines stimulate dendritic cells via cGAS/STING signaling.
Cancer immunology research ['Tumor antigens and innate signals are vital considerations in developing new therapeutic or prophylactic antitumor vaccines.
The role or requirement of intact tumor cells in the development of an effective tumor vaccine remains incompletely understood.
This study reveals the mechanism by which tumor cell-derived microparticles (T-MP) can act as a cell-free tumor vaccine.
Vaccinations with T-MPs give rise to prophylactic effects against the challenge of various tumor cell types, while T-MP-loaded dendritic cells (DC) also exhibit therapeutic effects in various tumor models.
Such antitumor effects of T-MPs are perhaps attributable to their ability to generate immune signaling and to represent tumor antigens.
Mechanically, T-MPs effectively transfer DNA fragments to DCs, leading to type I IFN production through the cGAS/STING-mediated DNA-sensing pathway.
In turn, type I IFN promotes DC maturation and presentation of tumor antigens to T cells for antitumor immunity.
These findings highlight a novel tumor cell-free vaccine strategy with potential clinical applications.'] 
24723458 Currently the full-text not available Antioxidant properties of a human neuropeptide and its protective effect on free radical-induced DNA damage.
Journal of peptide science : an official publication of the European Peptide Society ['Human catestatin CgA352-372 (SL21) is an endogenous neuropeptide with multiple biological functions.
The present study aimed to evaluate the antioxidant, antibacterial, cytotoxic, and DNA damage protective effects of SL21 neuropeptide.
SL21 neuropeptide generated from the C-terminus of chromogranin A (CgA) was synthesized by solid-phase method.
Synthetic peptide was subjected to various in vitro antioxidant assays including the scavenging of 1,1-diphenyl-2-pycryl-hydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS(·+) ), and hydroxyl free radicals, metal ion chelation, inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and reducing power.
Moreover, protective effect of SL21 on H2 O2 -induced DNA damage was analyzed using pTZ57/RT plasmid.
Methylthiazoltetrazolium assay was also performed to study the cytotoxic effect of SL21 neuropeptide on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Furthermore, antibacterial and hemolysis assays were conducted.
The results demonstrated high activities of SL21 in scavenging free radicals (DPPH, ABTS(·+) , and hydroxyl), chelating of Cu(2+)
/Fe(2+) metal ions, reducing power, and inhibition of lipid peroxidation in a concentration-dependent manner.
SL21 neuropeptide revealed a protective effect on DNA damage caused by hydroxyl radicals.
Interestingly, the peptide exhibited no significant cytotoxicity towards peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Furthermore, SL21 peptide displayed antimicrobial activity against Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa without any hemolytic activity on human red blood cells.
Conclusively, the present study established SL21 (catestatin) as a novel antioxidative peptide that could further be investigated for its potential use as a pharmaceutical agent.'] 
24813208 Currently the full-text not available TREX1 deficiency triggers cell-autonomous immunity in a cGAS-dependent manner.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ["Cytosolic detection of DNA is crucial for the initiation of antiviral immunity but can also cause autoimmunity in the context of endogenous nucleic acids being sensed.
Mutations in the human 3' repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1) have been linked to the type I IFN-associated autoimmune disease Aicardi-Goutières syndrome.
The exact mechanisms driving unabated type
I IFN responses in the absence of TREX1 are only partly understood, but it appears likely that accumulation of endogenous DNA species triggers a cell-autonomous immune response by activating a cytosolic DNA receptor.
In this article, we demonstrate that knocking out the DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase completely abrogates spontaneous induction of IFN-stimulated genes in TREX1-deficient cells.
These findings indicate a key role of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase for the initiation of self-DNA-induced autoimmune disorders, thus providing important implications for novel therapeutic approaches."] 
16049171 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A deficiency in transgenic mice leads to aberrant chromaffin granule biogenesis.
The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience ['The biogenesis of dense-core secretory granules (DCGs), organelles responsible for the storage and secretion of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in chromaffin cells, is poorly understood.
Chromogranin A (CgA), which binds catecholamines for storage in the lumen of chromaffin granules, has been shown to be involved in DCG biogenesis in neuroendocrine PC12 cells.
Here, we report that downregulation of CgA expression in vivo by expressing antisense RNA against CgA in transgenic mice led to a significant reduction in DCG formation in adrenal chromaffin cells.
The number of DCGs formed in CgA antisense transgenic mice was directly correlated with the amount of CgA present in adrenal medulla.
In addition, DCGs showed an increase in size, with enlargement in the volume around the dense core, a phenomenon that occurs to maintain constant "free" catecholamine concentration in the lumen of these granules.
The extent of DCG swelling was inversely correlated with the number of DCGs formed, as well as the amount of CgA present in the adrenal glands of CgA antisense transgenic mice.
These data indicate an essential role of CgA in regulating chromaffin DCG biogenesis and catecholamine storage in vivo.'] 
15054865 Currently the full-text not available Olf/EBF proteins are expressed in neuroblastoma cells: potential regulators of the Chromogranin A and SCG10 promoters.
International journal of cancer ['The childhood malignancy neuroblastoma is derived from developmentally arrested sympathetic nervous system precursor cells.
To obtain further insight into the molecular processes involved in the formation of these tumors, we decided to investigate the functional role of Olf/EBF (O/E) transcription factors in human neuroblastoma cells.
We here report that O/E-1 and O/E-2 are expressed at variable levels in neuroblastoma cell lines and that O/E proteins could be identified by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
To identify potential neuronal target genes for O/E proteins in neuroblastoma cells we investigated the ability of a set of neuronal promoters to interact with O/E-1 in electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
This analysis suggested that the Chromogranin A (CgA) and SCG10 promoters both contained binding sites for O/E-1.
O/E-1 was able to activate the CgA promoter in vivo and mutation of the O/E-1 binding site in the CgA promoter reduced the functional activity of the element to about 60% of the wild-type in neuroblastoma cells, supporting the idea that O/E proteins may be involved in the control of the CgA promoter.
Furthermore, overexpression of O/E-1 in hippocampal progenitor cells led to neurite outgrowth, indicative of a role for O/E proteins in neuronal differentiation.'] 
12799369 Currently the full-text not available Catecholamine secretory vesicle stimulus-transcription coupling in vivo.
Demonstration by a novel transgenic promoter/photoprotein reporter and inhibition of secretion and transcription by the chromogranin
A fragment catestatin.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Stimulation of chromaffin cell secretion in vitro triggers not only secretion but also resynthesis of just released catecholamines and chromogranin A, the precursor of the catecholamine release-inhibitory, nicotinic cholinergic antagonist peptide catestatin.
Does stimulus-transcription coupling occur in vivo?
And does catestatin antagonize secretion and transcription in vivo?
To answer these questions, we employed a novel mouse strain harboring a chromogranin A promoter/firefly luciferase reporter transgene.
Tissue-specific expression of the reporter was established by both luminescence and reverse transcription-PCR. Secretion and transcription in vivo were triggered by either direct nicotinic stimulation or vesicular transmitter depletion.
Nicotinic blockade in vivo was attempted with either the classical antagonist chlorisondamine or the novel antagonist catestatin.
Luciferase reporter expression was exquisitely sensitive over a large dynamic range, was specific for the transgenic animals, and paralleled typical neuroendocrine distribution of endogenous chromogranin A. Adrenal ontogeny revealed a rise of embryonic transgene expression until embryonal day 18, with an abrupt postnatal decline.
Direct nicotinic stimulation of chromaffin cells caused catecholamine release and transgene transcription, each of which was nearly completely blocked by chlorisondamine.
Similar adrenal results were obtained during vesicular catecholamine depletion.
Both secretion and transcription were substantially blocked in the adrenal gland by catestatin.
In brain and sympathetic nerve, stimulation of transcription was more modest, and reserpine responses were only incompletely blocked by chlorisondamine or catestatin, perhaps because of limited blood-brain barrier penetration by these cationic antagonists.
Thus, nicotinic cholinergic stimulus-transcription coupling occurs in vivo and can be provoked either directly or indirectly (by vesicular transmitter depletion).
Such coupling triggers the biosynthesis of chromogranin A, the precursor of catestatin.
Catestatin itself blocks stimulation of both secretion and transcription in vivo.
Thus, chromogranin A and its catestatin fragment may lie at the nexus of nicotinic cholinergic signaling in vivo.'] 
25821216 Currently the full-text not available Cutting edge: Antimalarial drugs inhibit IFN-β production through blockade of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-DNA interaction.
Journal of immunology
(Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['Type I IFN is strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmune diseases, such as lupus, and rare monogenic IFNopathies, including Aicardi-Goutières syndrome.
Recently, a new DNA-activated pathway involving the enzyme cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) was described and potentially linked to Aicardi-Goutières syndrome.
To identify drugs that could potentially inhibit cGAS activity, we performed in silico screening of drug libraries.
By computational analysis, we identified several antimalarial drugs (AMDs) that were predicted to interact with the cGAS/dsDNA complex.
Our studies validated that several AMDs were effective inhibitors of IFN-β production and that they functioned by inhibiting dsDNA stimulation of cGAS.
Because AMDs have been widely used in human diseases and have an excellent safety profile, our findings suggest new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of severe debilitating diseases associated with type I IFNs due to cGAS activation.'] 
23258413 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3863629/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase is a cytosolic DNA sensor that activates the type I interferon pathway.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['The presence of DNA in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells is a danger signal that triggers host immune responses such as the production of type I interferons.
Cytosolic DNA induces interferons through the production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP-AMP, or cGAMP), which binds to and activates the adaptor protein STING.
Through biochemical fractionation and quantitative mass spectrometry, we identified a cGAMP synthase (cGAS), which belongs to the nucleotidyltransferase family.
Overexpression of cGAS activated the transcription factor IRF3 and induced interferon-β in a STING-dependent manner.
Knockdown of cGAS inhibited IRF3 activation and interferon-β induction by DNA transfection or DNA virus infection.
cGAS bound to DNA in the cytoplasm and catalyzed cGAMP synthesis.
These results indicate that cGAS is a cytosolic DNA sensor that induces interferons by producing the second messenger cGAMP.'] 
23674521 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3749858/pdf/ MicroRNA-22 and promoter motif polymorphisms at the Chga locus in genetic hypertension: functional and therapeutic implications for gene expression and the pathogenesis of hypertension.
Human molecular genetics ["Hypertension is a common hereditary syndrome with unclear pathogenesis.
Chromogranin A (Chga), which catalyzes formation and cargo storage of regulated secretory granules in neuroendocrine cells, contributes to blood pressure homeostasis centrally and peripherally.
Elevated Chga occurs in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) adrenal glands and plasma, but central expression is unexplored.
In this report, we measured SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rat (control) Chga expression in central and peripheral nervous systems, and found Chga protein to be decreased in the SHR brainstem, yet increased in the adrenal and the plasma.
By re-sequencing, we systematically identified five promoter, two coding and one 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) polymorphism at the SHR (versus WKY or BN) Chga locus.
Using HXB/BXH recombinant inbred (RI) strain linkage and correlations, we demonstrated genetic determination of Chga expression in SHR, including a cis-quantitative trait loci (QTLs) (i.e. at the Chga locus), and such expression influenced biochemical determinants of blood pressure, including a cascade of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes, catecholamines themselves and steroids.
Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that the 3'-UTR polymorphism (which disrupts a microRNA miR-22 motif) and promoter polymorphisms altered gene expression consistent with the decline in SHR central Chga expression.
Coding region polymorphisms did not account for changes in Chga expression or function.
Thus, we hypothesized that the 3'-UTR and promoter mutations lead to dysregulation (diminution) of Chga in brainstem cardiovascular control nuclei, ultimately contributing to the pathogenesis of hypertension in SHR.
Accordingly, we demonstrated that in vivo administration of miR-22 antagomir to SHR causes substantial (∼18 mmHg) reductions in blood pressure, opening a novel therapeutic avenue for hypertension."] 
26640548 Currently the full-text not available Anti-candidal activity of a novel peptide derived from human chromogranin A and its mechanism of action against Candida krusei.
Experimental and therapeutic medicine [StringElement('Candida species (Candida spp.) are important fungal pathogens, which cause numerous clinical diseases associated with significant mortality and morbidity in healthcare settings.
In our previous study, we identified a recombinant peptide, chromogranin A (CGA)-N46, corresponding to the N-terminal Pro31-Gln76 sequence of human CGA, that exhibited antifungal activity against Candida albicans.
The present study investigated the antifungal activity of CGA-N46, and its underlying mechanism, against numerous Candida spp.
CGA-N46 inhibited the growth of all of the tested Candida spp.
, of which Candida krusei exhibited the greatest sensitivity.
CGA-N46 was able to disrupt the stability of the phospholipid monolayer without damaging the integrity and permeability of the outer membrane of C. krusei cells, and induced cytoplasm vacuolization and mitochondrial damage.
In addition, treatment of C. krusei with CGA-N46 was associated with decreased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species, a reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential, and DNA synthesis inhibition.
The results of the present study suggested that CGA-N46 was able to pass through the cell membrane of Candida spp.
by temporarily destabilizing the phospholipid membrane, which in turn led to mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
Therefore, CGA-N46 may be considered a novel antifungal compound for the treatment of patients with C. krusei infections.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25855353 Currently the full-text not available DNA-Mediated Cyclic GMP-AMP Synthase-Dependent and -Independent Regulation of Innate Immune Responses.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ["Cytoplasmic DNA activates cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) to produce cyclic 2'-5'3'-5'GMP-AMP dinucleotide (2'5 'cGAMP).
The binding of 2'5'cGAMP to an adaptor protein, stimulator of IFN genes (STING), activates a transcription factor, IFN regulatory factor 3, leading to the induction of IFN and chemokine gene expression.
In this study, we found that the 2'5'cGAMP-dependent STING activation induced highly upregulated CXCL10 gene expression.
Formation of a distinct STING dimer, which was detected by native PAGE, was induced by 2'5'cGAMP, but not 3'-5'3'-5'cGAMP. Analysis of DNase II(-/-) mice, which constitutively produce IFN-β and CXCL10, showed the accumulation of 2'5'cGAMP in their fetal livers and spleens, suggesting that the undigested DNA accumulating in DNase II(-/-) cells may have leaked from the lysosomes into the cytoplasm.
The DNase II(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts produced 2'5'cGAMP in a cGAS-dependent manner during apoptotic cell engulfment.
However, cGAS deficiency did not impair the STING-dependent upregulation of CXCL10 in DNase II(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts that was induced by apoptotic cell engulfment or DNA lipofection.
These results suggest the involvement of a cGAS-independent additional DNA sensor(s) that induces the STING-dependent activation of innate immunity."] 
15358782 Currently the full-text not available A dynamic pool of calcium in catecholamine storage vesicles.
Exploration in living cells by a novel vesicle-targeted chromogranin A-aequorin chimeric photoprotein.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Chromaffin vesicles contain very high concentration of Ca2+ (approximately 20-40 mM total), compared with approximately 100 nM in the cytosol.
Aequorin, a jellyfish photoprotein with Ca(2+)-dependent luminescence, measures [Ca2+] in specific subcellular compartments wherein proteins with organelle-specific trafficking domains are fused in-frame to aequorin.
Because of the presence of vesicular trafficking domain within CgA we engineered sorting of an expressed human CgA-Aequorin fusion protein (hCgA-Aeq) into the vesicle compartment as confirmed by sucrose density gradients and confocal immunofluorescent co-localization studies.
hCgA-Aeq and cytoplasmic aequorin (Cyto-Aeq)
luminescence displayed linear functions of [Ca2+] in vitro, over >5 log10 orders of magnitude (r > 0.99), and down to at least 10(-7) M sensitivity.
Calibrating the pH dependence of hCgA-Aeq luminescence allowed estimation of [Ca2+]ves at granule interior pH (approximately 5.5).
In the cytoplasm, Cyto-Aeq accurately determined [Ca2+]cyto under both basal ([Ca2+]cyto = 130 +/- 35 nM) and exocytosis-stimulated conditions, confirmed by an independent reference technique (Indo-1 fluorescence).
The hCgA-Aeq chimera determined vesicular free [Ca2+]ves = 1.4 +/- 0.3 microM under basal conditions indicating that >99% of granule total Ca2+ is in a "bound" state.
The basal free [Ca2+]ves/[Ca2+]cyto ratio was thus approximately 10.8-fold, indicating active, dynamic Ca2+ uptake from cytosol into the granules.
Stimulation of exocytotic secretion revealed prompt, dynamic increases in both [Ca2+](ves) and [Ca2+]cyto, and an exponential relation between the two (y = 0.99 x e(1.53x), r = 0.99), reflecting a persistent [Ca2+]ves/[Ca2+]cyto gradient, even during sharp increments of both values.
Studies with inhibitors of Ca2+ translocation (Ca(2+)-ATPase), Na+/Ca(+)-exchange, Na+/H(+)-exchange, and vesicle acidification (H(+)-translocating ATPase), documented a role for these four ion transporter classes in accumulation of Ca2+ inside the vesicles.'] 
19732020 Currently the full-text not available Non-hybridization saturable mechanisms play a role in the uptake of (68)Ga-Labeled LNA-DNA mixmer antisense oligonucleotides in rats.
Oligonucleotides ['Oligonucleotides (ODN) are key molecules for the aim of preventing translation of a gene product or monitoring gene expression in tissues.
However, multiple methodological and biological hurdles need to be solved before in vivo application in humans will be possible.
For positron emission tomography (PET) investigations, a 20-mer DNA-locked nucleic acid (LNA) mixmer ODN specific for rat chromogranin-A mRNA was labeled with (68)Ga and its uptake was examined in vivo in rats with and without blocking of scavenger receptors by polyribonucleotides.
In addition, uptake studies of (68)Ga-LNA were performed with respect to time and concentration in human and rat cell lines.
The human cell lines did not express the target mRNA. Both polyinosinic acid (poly-I) and polyadenylic acid (poly-A) reduced the uptake in rat tissues and in human cell lines.
Poly-I was found to be more effective in the liver whereas poly-A was more effective in the kidney.
In addition, the blockade by poly-I was statistically significant in the pancreas, adrenal gland, bone marrow, intestine, testis, urinary bladder, muscle, parotid gland, and heart, whereas poly-A also caused significant reduction in pancreas, adrenal gland, and bone marrow but not as much as in kidney.
Cell culture study showed a 2-phase dose-dependent uptake characteristic with a saturable and a passive diffusion-like phase; however, these 2 phases were not so well expressed in the rat cell line.
The results suggest that scavenger receptors or other saturable processes unrelated to hybridization may be involved in the tissue uptake of (68)Ga-LNA and in the clearance of antisense ODN through the liver, kidney, spleen, and bone marrow.
The fact that these processes may be sequence-dependent suggests that proof of in vivo hybridization through imaging may not be obtained by only comparing sense and antisense sequences and proving dose-dependency.'] 
12456801 Currently the full-text not available Interaction of early growth response protein 1 (Egr-1), specificity protein 1 (Sp1), and cyclic adenosine 3'5'-monophosphate response element binding protein (CREB) at a proximal response element is critical for gastrin-dependent activation of the chromogranin A promoter.
Molecular endocrinology
(Baltimore, Md.) ['Recently, binding of specific protein 1 (Sp1) and cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) to a GC-rich element at -92/-62 has been identified as a critical step in gastrin-dependent regulation of the chromogranin A (CgA) gene in gastric epithelial cells.
Here we demonstrate that binding of early growth response protein 1 (Egr-1) to the distal part of the -92/-62 site is also required for gastrin-dependent CgA transactivation.
Gastrin elevated cellular and nuclear Egr-1 levels in a time-dependent manner and also increased Egr-1 binding to the CgA -92/-73 region.
Disruption of this site reduced gastrin responsiveness without influencing basal promoter activity, while loss of Sp1 and/or CREB binding sites diminished basal and gastrin-stimulated CgA promoter activity.
Ectopic Egr-1 overexpression potently stimulated the CgA promoter, whereas coexpression of Egr-1 with Sp1 and/or CREB resulted in additive effects.
Functional analysis of Sp1-, Egr-1-, or CREB-specific promoter mutations in transfection studies confirmed the tripartite organization of the CgA -92/-62 element.
Signaling studies revealed that MAPK kinase 1 (MEK1)/ERK1/2 cascades are critical for gastrin-dependent Egr-1 protein accumulation as well as Egr-1 binding to the CgA promoter.
Our studies for the first time identify Egr-1 as a nuclear target of gastrin and show that functional interplay of Egr-1, Sp1, and CREB is indispensable for gastrin-dependent CgA transactivation in gastric epithelial cells.'] 
14533935 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine tissue-specific transcription factor, BETA2/NeuroD, in gastric carcinomas: a comparison with chromogranin A and synaptophysin expressions.
Pathology, research and practice ['BETA2/NeuroD (NeuroD) is a basic helix-loop-helix type of transcription factor mainly involved in neuroendocrine differentiation.
In this study, we evaluated the prevalence of neuroendocrine differentiation in gastric carcinomas by analyzing the NeuroD expression in comparison with those of chromogranin A and synaptophysin.
Of the 70 cases of gastric adenocarcinoma, the expressions of NeuroD, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin were detected in 17 (24.3%), four (5.7%), and 24 cases (34.3%), respectively, with preferential expressions in a non-solid type of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
The expression pattern of NeuroD was mostly concordant with that of synaptophysin and partly with chromogranin A, indicating that NeuroD serves as a good neuroendocrine marker in gastric adenocarcinomas.
On the other hand, no immunoreactivity against NeuroD was detectable in nine cases of gastric neuroendocrine carcinomas, including small cell carcinomas, despite the presence of synaptophysin and chromogranin A expressions.
These findings led us to conclude that neuroendocrine differentiation is estimated to be present in 20-30% of gastric adenocarcinomas with preference to a non-solid type of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
In addition, the negative expression of NeuroD in neuroendocrine carcinomas suggests that other regulatory mechanisms are possibly involved in the development of neuroendocrine carcinoma.'] 
26048137 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4499468/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP Synthase Is an Innate Immune DNA Sensor for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Cell host & microbe ['Activation of the DNA-dependent cytosolic surveillance pathway in response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection stimulates ubiquitin-dependent autophagy and inflammatory cytokine production, and plays an important role in host defense against M. tuberculosis.
However, the identity of the host sensor for M. tuberculosis DNA is unknown.
Here we show that M. tuberculosis activated cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) in macrophages to produce cGAMP, a second messenger that activates the adaptor protein stimulator of interferon genes (STING) to induce type I interferons and other cytokines.
cGAS localized with M. tuberculosis in mouse and human cells and in human tuberculosis lesions.
Knockdown or knockout of cGAS in human or mouse macrophages blocked cytokine production and induction of autophagy.
Mice deficient in cGAS were more susceptible to lethality caused by infection with M. tuberculosis.
These results demonstrate that cGAS is a vital innate immune sensor of M. tuberculosis infection.'] 
14698219 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical assessment of the neurosecretory cells of the chicken thymus using a novel monoclonal antibody against avian chromogranin A. Developmental and comparative immunology ['An immunocytochemical approach to the identification of neuroendocrine cells in the thymus of the chicken was taken based on a novel monoclonal antibody against turkey chromogranin A (CgA), a classic marker protein for neuroendocrine cells.
CgA-immunoreactive cells were readily observed in the thymus, and were typically confined to the medullary side of the corticomedullary junction of the thymic lobules.
Reversed transcription PCR confirmed local production of CgA in the thymus.
The majority of CgA+ cells were small and round or oval in shape but some cells were larger and had conspicuous extensions.
Immunofluorescent double staining experiments with antibodies against Neuron-specific enolase and with a neural crest marker (HNK-1) indicated no demonstrable overlap between the CgA-positive cells and either of the above cell populations, demonstrating the existence of three distinct neuronal/neuroendocrine cell populations in the avian thymus.'] 
26705280 Currently the full-text not available [Expression of p63, p40 and CK5/6 in small cell lung cancer].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology [StringElement('To study the expression of squamous cell markers p63, p40 and CK5/6 in small cell carcinoma of lung (SCLC).'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('Immunohistochemical study for squamous cell markers (p63, p40 and CK5/6), neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A, synaptophysin and CD56) and TTF1 was carried out in 283 cases of SCLC.
The diagnostic value of these markers was evaluated.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('The expression rate of p63, p40 and CK5/6 were 20.7% (54/261), 7.9% (5/63) and 0.5% (1/221), respectively in the cases of SCLC studied.
Amongst the squamous cell markers, CK5/6 had the lowest rate of positivity (P < 0.01).
On the other hand, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and CD56 were positive in 61.8% (170/275), 85.5% (242/283) and 89.2% (248/278), respectively.
The positivity rate for chromogranin A was lower than that for synaptophysin and CD56 (P < 0.01).
TTF1 was expressed in 77.2% (217/281).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('p63 and p40 are expressed in a subset of SCLC.
In contrast, CK5/6 is rarely positive in SCLC. An immunohistochemical panel of CK5/6, synaptophysin and CD56 is recommended for differential diagnosis of SCLC.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26471009 Currently the full-text not available
The cyclic GMP-AMP synthetase-STING signaling pathway is required for both the innate immune response against HBV and the suppression of HBV assembly.
The FEBS journal ['During viral replication, the innate immune response is induced through the recognition of viral replication intermediates by host factor(s).
One of these host factors, cyclic GMP-AMP synthetase (cGAS), was recently reported to be involved in the recognition of viral DNA derived from DNA viruses.
However, it is uncertain whether cGAS is involved in the recognition of hepatitis B virus (HBV), which is a hepatotropic DNA virus.
In the present study, we demonstrated that HBV genome-derived double-stranded DNA induced the innate immune response through cGAS and its adaptor protein, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), in human hepatoma Li23 cells expressing high levels of cGAS.
In addition, we demonstrated that HBV infection induced ISG56 through the cGAS-STING signaling pathway.
This signaling pathway also showed an antiviral response towards HBV through the suppression of viral assembly.
From these results, we conclude that the cGAS-STING signaling pathway is required for not only the innate immune response against HBV but also the suppression of HBV assembly.
The cGAS-STING signaling pathway may thus be a novel target for anti-HBV strategies.'] 
25765883 Currently the full-text not available Molecular cloning and functional characterization of porcine cyclic GMP-AMP synthase.
Molecular immunology ['Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), which belongs to the nucleotidyltransferase family, recognizes cytosolic DNA and induces the type I interferon (IFN) pathway through the synthesis of the second messenger cGAMP.
In this study, porcine cGAS (p-cGAS) was identified and its tissue distribution, subcellular localization, and functions in innate immunity were characterized.
The coding sequence of p-cGAS is 1494 bp long, encodes 497 amino acids, and is most similar (74%) to Bos taurus cGAS. p-cGAS mRNA is abundant in the spleen, duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
The subcellular distribution of p-cGAS is not only in the cytosol, but also on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane.
The overexpression of wild-type p-cGAS in porcine kidney epithelial cells, but not its catalytically inactive mutants, induced IFN-β expression, which was dependent on STING and IRF3.
However, the downregulation of p-cGAS by RNA interference markedly reduced IFN-β expression after pseudorabies virus (PRV) infection or poly(dA:dT) transfection.
These results demonstrate that p-cGAS is an important DNA sensor, required for IFN-β activation.'] 
12646581 Currently the full-text not available Secretin activation of chromogranin
A gene transcription.
Identification of the signaling pathways in cis and in trans.
The Journal of biological chemistry ["Secretin evokes catecholamine secretion from PC12 pheochromocytoma cells.
We tested whether secretin activates transcription of the major vesicular core protein chromogranin A (CgA).
Secretin stimulated both endogenous CgA gene transcription (approximately 4-6-fold) as well as transfected CgA promoter activity (approximately 8-10-fold;
EC50, approximately 7 nm) in PC12 cells.
Studies on CgA promoter 5'-deletion mutant/luciferase reporter constructs, point mutations of the CgA cAMP response element (CRE), and their transfer to a heterologous promoter implicated CRE in cis as both necessary and sufficient for secretin-stimulated CgA gene transcription.
Secretin-induced CgA gene transcription was inhibited/abolished by cytosolic Ca2+ chelation, chemical blockade of phospholipase C,
protein kinase A (PKA), or mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and the expression of dominant negative mutants of ERK1/2, CRE binding protein (CREB) kinase RSK2, or CREB. Secretin also augmented (approximately 4-fold) phosphorylation of ERK1/2.
Trans-activation (approximately 21-fold) of GAL4-CREB fusion protein by secretin indicates involvement of CREB in secretin signaling to gene transcription.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays also identified CREB as the mediator of secretin-induced CgA gene transcription, and pCREB supershifts indicated Ser-133 as the active CREB moiety in vitro.
This conclusion was reinforced in vivo by results of chromatin pCREB immunoprecipitation assays.
We conclude that secretin signals to CgA gene transcription through the CRE domain in cis and through cAMP, Ca2+, PKA, MAP kinase, and the transcription factor CREB in trans.
Thus, multiple signal transduction pathways seem to subserve the function of stimulus-transcription coupling after this peptidergic stimulus to chromaffin cells."] 
11830555 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A expression in neoplastic cells affects tumor growth and morphogenesis in mouse models.
Cancer research ['Chromogranin A (CgA), a secretory protein expressed by many neuroendocrine cells, has been recognized as a useful tissue and serum marker of neuroendocrine tumors.
To investigate the effect of CgA secretion on neoplastic morphogenesis and progression, we have transfected mouse RMA lymphoma and TS/A adenocarcinoma cells with the cDNA encoding human CgA and selected several CgA-positive (secreting) and CgA-negative (nonsecreting) clones.
In both models, the growth rate of CgA-positive clones implanted s.c.
in nude mice was slower than that of CgA-negative clones.
Histological analysis of each RMA tumor showed that CgA-expression was associated with multinodular growth patterns, whereas CgA-negative tumors appeared more compact and similar to wild-type RMA tumors.
Moreover, CgA production was associated with increased tumor necrosis.
The number of nodules in each RMA tumor correlated with the serum levels of CgA (n = 40, r = 0.537, P = 0.0004).
The reduced growth rate of CgA-positive RMA and TS/A tumors was not related to reduced in vitro proliferation or to changes in cell adhesion and shape, suggesting that the mechanism is indirect and host-mediated.
These results suggest that abnormal secretion of CgA by neuroendocrine neoplastic cells could affect neoplastic growth and morphogenesis.'] 
11039590 Currently the full-text not available Molecular cloning of equine chromogranin A and its expression in endocrine and exocrine tissues.
The Journal of veterinary medical science ['Chromogranin A (CGA) is a member of a family of highly acidic proteins co-stored and co-released with catecholamines in the adrenal medullary cells as well as in other neurons and paraneurons.
The nucleotide sequence encoding equine CGA was determined using RT-PCR and rapid amplification of complementary DNA (cDNA) ends (RACE) techniques.
A total 1,828 bp of the nucleotide sequence reveals that equine CGA is a 448-residue protein preceded by an 18-residue signal peptide.
Comparison of the amino acid sequence of equine CGA with those of human, porcine, bovine, mouse, rat and frog CGA showed high conservation at the NH2-terminal 1-77 amino acids regions (94.8%, 93.5%, 92.2%, 81.8%, 83.1% and 66.2%, respectively) and COOH-terminal 314-430 amino acids regions (90.6%, 81.4%, 90.6%, 80.5%, 83.3% and 39.0%, respectively), as well as a potential dibasic cleavage site, whereas the middle portion showed marked sequence variation (52.5%, 49.1%, 38.9%, 26.6%, 27.9% and 6.2%, respectively).
Northern blot analysis and RT-PCR elucidated the tissue distribution of equine CGA mRNA. Its expression was confirmed not only in the adrenal medullary cells but also in other organs (cerebrum, cerebellum, pituitary gland, spinal cord, liver, thyroid gland, striated muscle, lung, spleen, kidney, parotid gland and sublingual gland).
Further, in adrenal chromaffin cells and pituitary cells of the anterior-intermediate lobe, the expression was confirmed by in situ hybridization with anti-sense CGA cRNA probe.'] 
25892965 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4400389/pdf/
Recognition of cytosolic DNA attenuates glucose metabolism and induces AMPK mediated energy stress response.
International journal of biological sciences ['Both viral infection and DNA transfection expose single-stranded or double-stranded DNA to the cytoplasm of mammalian cells.
Recognition of cytosolic DNA activates a series of cellular responses, including induction of pro-inflammatory genes such as type I interferon through the well-known cGAS-STING pathway.
Here we show for the first time that intracellular administration of either single or double stranded interferon stimulating DNA (ISD), but not poly(dA) suppresses cell growth in many different cell types.
Suppression of cell growth by cytosolic DNA is cGAS/STING independent and associated with inhibition of glucose metabolism, ATP depletion and subsequent cellular energy stress responses including activation of AMPK and inactivation of mTORC1.
Our results suggest that in concert with but independent of innate immune response, recognition of cytosolic DNA induced cellular energy stress potentially functions as a metabolic barrier to viral replication.'] 
26803624 Currently the full-text not available Methods for Delivering DNA to Intracellular Receptors.
Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.) ['Cytosolic DNA can indicate infection and induces type I interferon (IFN) and AIM2 inflammasome responses.
Characterization of these responses has required introduction of DNA into the cytosol of macrophages by either chemical transfection or electroporation, each of which has advantages in different applications.
We describe here optimized procedures for both electroporation and chemical transfection, including the centrifugation of chemical transfection reagent onto cells, which greatly increases the speed and strength of responses.
Appropriate choice of DNA and use of these methods allow study of either the cytosolic DNA responses in isolation or the simultaneous stimulation of cytosolic receptors and the CpG DNA receptor toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) in the endosomes.'] 
11441651 Currently the full-text not available [Chromogranin A gene antisense transgenic mice and the tissue specific promoter of chromogranin
A gene].
Yi chuan xue bao = Acta genetica Sinica ['The vector pGAS1C-lacZ was constructed which contains cga promoter-lacZ and cga promoter-cga antisense cDNA two major parts.
The pGAS1C-lacZ was integrated into genome of PC-12 cells and lacZ gene expressed in PC-12 cells.
We cut the pGAS1C-lacZ with Xba I and Sal I to get rid of the framework of plasmid pGAS1C-lacZ, then microinjected the other part which contains antisense DNA into female pronucleus of the fertile mouse eggs.
All injected fertile eggs were transplanted into the oviduct of foster so that the injected eggs developed normally.
We selected transgenic mice by PCR, and got 14 transgenic founders.
The founders were hybridized with normal mice respectively to reproduce the offspring F1 of founders.
We executed all the founders and took their adrenal glands to dye with X-Gal respectively.
Paraffin sections of the dyed adrenal glands were used to determine the level of lacZ expression in transgenic mice, so we selected two founders which adrenal glands were dyed deeply, and remained their offsprings.
Taking different tissues from the transgenic mice to dye with X-Gal respectively, and we found the lacZ gene expressed in the adrenal gland and pancreas, but not in the muscle and adipose tissues.
This result shows the neuroendocrine tissue specific promoter of Chromogranin A gene.'] 
15347749 Currently the full-text not available Use of community genome arrays (CGAs) to assess the effects of Acacia angustissima on rumen ecology.
Microbiology (Reading, England) ['This research developed a community genome array (CGA) to assess the effects of Acacia angustissima on rumen microbiology.
A. angustissima produces non-protein amino acids as well as tannins, which may be toxic to animals, and CGA was used to assess the effects of this plant on the ecology of the rumen.
CGAs were developed using a 7.5 cmx2.5 cm nylon membrane format that included up to 96 bacterial genomes.
It was possible to separately hybridize large numbers of membranes at once using this mini-membrane format.
Pair-wise cross-hybridization experiments were conducted to determine the degree of cross-hybridization between strains; cross-hybridization occurred between strains of the same species, but little cross-reactivity was observed among different species.
CGAs were successfully used to survey the microbial communities of animals consuming an A. angustissima containing diet but quantification was not precise.
To properly quantify and validate the CGA, Fibrobacter and Ruminococcus populations were independently assessed using 16S rDNA probes to extracted rRNA.
The CGA detected an increase in these populations as acacia increased in the diet, which was confirmed by rRNA analysis.
There was a great deal of variation among strains of the same species in how they responded to A. angustissima.
However, in general Selenomonas strains tended to be resistant to the tannins in the acacia while Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens was sensitive.
On the other hand some species, like streptococci, varied.
Streptococcus bovis-like strains were sensitive to an increase in acacia in the diet while Streptococcus gallolyticus-like strains were resistant.
Strep.
gallolyticus has independently been shown to be resistant to tannins.
It is concluded that there is significant variation in tannin resistance between strains of the same species.
This implies that there are specific molecular mechanisms at play that are independent of the phylogenetic position of the organism.'] 
27414497 Currently the full-text not available Group B Streptococcus Degrades Cyclic-di-AMP to Modulate STING-Dependent Type
I Interferon Production.
Cell host & microbe ['Induction of type I interferon (IFN) in response to microbial pathogens depends on a conserved cGAS-STING signaling pathway.
The presence of DNA in the cytoplasm activates cGAS, while STING is activated by cyclic dinucleotides (cdNs) produced by cGAS or from bacterial origins.
Here, we show that Group B Streptococcus (GBS) induces IFN-β production almost exclusively through cGAS-STING-dependent recognition of bacterial DNA.
However, we find\xa0that GBS expresses an ectonucleotidase, CdnP, which hydrolyzes extracellular bacterial cyclic-di-AMP. Inactivation of CdnP leads to c-di-AMP accumulation outside the bacteria and increased IFN-β production.
Higher IFN-β levels in\xa0vivo increase GBS killing by the\xa0host.
The IFN-β overproduction observed in the absence of CdnP is due to the cumulative effect of\xa0DNA sensing by cGAS and STING-dependent sensing of c-di-AMP.
These findings describe the importance of a bacterial c-di-AMP ectonucleotidase and suggest a direct bacterial mechanism that dampens activation of the cGAS-STING axis.'] 
11438493 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine-specific and gastrin-dependent expression of a chromogranin A-luciferase fusion gene in transgenic mice.
Gastroenterology [StringElement("Chromogranin A (CgA) is a multifunctional acidic protein specifically expressed in neuroendocrine cells.
In the stomach, CgA is found predominantly in enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells, where it is regulated by gastrin.
We investigated the ability of a promoter fragment comprising 4.8 kb of 5'-flanking DNA of the mouse CgA (mCgA) gene to direct cell-specific expression as well as gastrin responsiveness in the gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine system."
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND AND AIMS'}), StringElement('Two independent lines of mCgA 4.8 kb-luc transgenic mice were created.
Transgene expression was assessed by determination of luciferase activity and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis of luciferase messenger RNA. Cell specificity of transgene expression was investigated by immunohistochemical analysis.
The influence of hypergastrinemia on transgene expression was determined after repeated omeprazole injections.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('In both transgenic lines, mCgA 4.8 kb-luc expression paralleled the expression pattern of the endogenous CgA gene.
ECL cells were identified as the major gastric cell population expressing the transgene.
Omeprazole treatment stimulated expression of the transgene and the endogenous CgA gene selectivity in the gastric corpus (3-4-fold).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement("mCgA 5'-flanking DNA (4.8 kb) contain the major cis-regulatory element(s) required for cell-specific CgA expression in the neuroendocrine system and gastrin-responsiveness in the gastric corpus.
Further analysis of the CgA promoter in transgenic studies may elucidate the general molecular mechanisms underlying cell-specific gene expression in the gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine system.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26819496 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4706940/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP Synthase Is Required for Cell Proliferation and Inflammatory Responses in Rheumatoid Arthritis Synoviocytes.
Mediators of inflammation ['Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by inflammatory cell infiltration, fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) invasive proliferation, and joint destruction.
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic DNA sensor that induces immune activation.
In this study, we examined whether cGAS plays a role in RA FLS.
In this study, cGAS was overexpressed in RA-FLS compared with OA FLS. TNFα stimulation induced cGAS expression in RA FLS. Overexpression of cGAS promoted the proliferation and knockdown of cGAS inhibited the proliferation of RA FLS. cGAS overexpression enhanced the production of proinflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) as well as AKT and ERK phosphorylation in TNFα-stimulated FLS.
In contrast, cGAS silencing inhibited production of proinflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) as well as AKT and ERK phosphorylation in TNFα-stimulated FLS.
These results suggest that cGAS activates the AKT and ERK pathways to promote the inflammatory response of RA FLS, and the development of strategies targeting cGAS may have therapeutic potential for human RA.'] 
24593816 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4089180/pdf/ Innate DNA sensing is impaired in HIV patients and IFI16 expression correlates with chronic immune activation.
Clinical and experimental immunology ['The innate immune system has been recognized to play a role in the pathogenesis of HIV infection, both by stimulating protective activities and through a contribution to chronic immune activation, the development of immunodeficiency and progression to AIDS.
A role for DNA sensors in HIV recognition has been suggested recently, and the aim of the present study was to describe the influence of HIV infection on expression and function of intracellular DNA sensing.
Here we demonstrate impaired expression of interferon-stimulated genes in responses to DNA in peripheral blood monuclear cells from HIV-positive individuals, irrespective of whether patients receive anti-retroviral treatment.
Furthermore, we show that expression levels of the DNA sensors interferon-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase were increased in treatment-naive patients, and for IFI16 expression was correlated with high viral load and low CD4 cell count.
Finally, our data demonstrate a correlation between IFI16 and CD38 expression, a marker of immune activation, in CD4(+) central and effector memory T cells, which may indicate that IFI16-mediated DNA sensing and signalling contributes to chronic immune activation.
Altogether, the present study demonstrates abnormal expression and function of cytosolic DNA sensors in HIV patients, which may have implications for control of opportunistic infections, chronic immune activation and T cell death.'] 
22688353 Currently the full-text not available In situ hybridization in human and rodent tissue by the use of a new and simplified method.
Applied immunohistochemistry & molecular morphology : AIMM ['In situ hybridization (ISH) is a method that detects and localizes DNA or RNA in morphologically preserved tissue and cell preparations.
The method is based on the principle that DNA or RNA will undergo hydrogen binding to complimentary sequences.
Selective probes are labeled and used in order to detect specific sequences in tissues or cell preparations.
Even though the method has improved over the past decades, there are still issues with sensitivity and specificity.
The protocols are nonstandardized, and often time consuming due to multiple steps.
In this paper, we have used a new and commercially available ISH kit for the detection of mRNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue.
We have used both human and Mongolian gerbil tissue, and we evaluated mRNA expression of the neuroendocrine markers chromogranin A and histidine decarboxylase in both normal tissue and poorly differentiated tumor.
In our experience, this method offers excellent sensitivity and specificity.
The protocol is more standardized, and our results have been consistent.
It is also less time consuming than conventional ISH protocols.'] 
11124958 Currently the full-text not available Mechanisms underlying neuronal death induced by chromogranin A-activated microglia.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['The neurotoxic effects of activated microglia in neurodegenerative diseases are well established.
We recently provided evidence that chromogranin A (CGA), a multifunctional protein localized in dystrophic neurites and in senile plaques, induces an activated phenotype and secretion of neurotoxins by rat microglia in culture.
In the present study, we focused on the mechanisms underlying neuronal degeneration triggered by CGA-activated microglia.
We found that neuronal death exhibits apoptotic features, characterized by the externalization of phosphatidylserine and the fragmentation of DNA. Microglial neurotoxins markedly stimulate the phosphorylation and activity of neuronal p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and provoke the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c, which precedes apoptosis.
Inhibition of p38 kinase with SB 203580 partially protects neurons from death induced by CGA-activated microglia.
Furthermore, neurons are also protected by Fas-Fc, which antagonizes the interactions between the death receptor Fas and its ligand FasL and by cell-permeable peptides that inhibit caspases 8 and 3.
Thus, CGA triggers the release of microglial neurotoxins that mobilize several death-signaling pathways in neurons.
Our results further support the idea that CGA, which is up-regulated in many neuropathologies, represents a potent endogeneous inflammatory factor possibly responsible for neuronal degeneration.'] 
23361940 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3644020/pdf/
Altered PTEN, ATRX, CHGA, CHGB, and TP53 expression are associated with aggressive VHL-associated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
Hormones & cancer ['Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome is an inherited cancer syndrome in which 8-17 % of germline mutation carriers develop pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs).
There is limited data on prognostic markers for PNETs other than Ki-67, which is included in the World Health Organization classification system.
Recently, specific genes and pathways have been identified by whole exome sequencing which may be involved in the tumorigenesis of PNETs and may be markers of disease aggressiveness.
The objective of this study was to identify molecular markers of aggressive disease in VHL-associated PNETs.
The protein expression of eight genes (PTEN, CHGA, CHGB, ATRX, DAXX, CC-3, VEGF, and TP53) was analyzed in PNETs by immunohistochemistry and compared to clinical data, VHL genotype, functional imaging results, and pathologic findings.
Subcellular distribution of phosphatase and tensin (PTEN),
chromogranin A (CHGA), and alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked (ATRX) were significantly different by WHO classifications (p ≤ 0.05).
There was decreased PTEN nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio (p < 0.01) and decreased CHGA nuclear expression (p = 0.03) in malignant samples as compared to benign.
Lower cytoplasmic chromogranin B (CHGB) expression (p = 0.03) was associated with malignant tumors and metastasis.
Higher nuclear expression of PTEN was associated with VHL mutations in exon 3 (p = 0.04).
Higher PTEN and CHGB expression was associated with higher FDG-PET avidity (p < 0.05).
Cytoplasmic expression of CC-3 was associated with higher serum chromogranin A levels (ρ = 0.72, p = 0.02).
Lastly, greater cytoplasmic expression of p53 was associated with metastasis.
Our findings suggest that altered PTEN, ATRX, CHGA, and CHGB expression are associated with aggressive PNET phenotype in VHL and may serve as useful adjunct prognostic markers to Ki-67 in PNETs.'] 
27043414 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4917298 [AVAILABLE ON 05/01/17]/pdf/ S6K-STING interaction regulates cytosolic DNA-mediated activation of the transcription factor IRF3.
Nature immunology ['Cytosolic DNA-mediated activation of the transcription factor IRF3 is a key event in host antiviral responses.
Here we found that infection with DNA viruses induced interaction of the metabolic checkpoint kinase mTOR downstream effector and kinase S6K1 and the signaling adaptor STING in a manner dependent on the DNA sensor cGAS. We further demonstrated that the kinase domain, but not the kinase function, of S6K1 was required for the S6K1-STING interaction and that the TBK1 critically promoted this process.
The formation of a tripartite S6K1-STING-TBK1 complex was necessary for the activation of IRF3, and disruption of this signaling axis impaired the early-phase expression of IRF3 target genes and the induction of T cell responses and mucosal antiviral immunity.
Thus, our results have uncovered a fundamental regulatory mechanism for the activation of IRF3 in the cytosolic DNA pathway.'] 
23962476 Currently the full-text not available The interferon response to intracellular DNA: why so many receptors?
Immunobiology ["The detection of intracellular DNA has emerged to be a key event in the innate immune response to viruses and intracellular bacteria, and during conditions of sterile inflammation and autoimmunity.
One of the consequences of the detection of DNA as a 'stranger' and a 'danger' signal is the production of type I interferons and pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Much work has been dedicated to the elucidation of the signalling cascades that activate this DNA-induced gene expression programme.
However, while many proteins have been proposed to act as sensors for intracellular DNA in recent years, none has been met with universal acceptance, and a theory linking all the recent observations is, as yet, lacking.
This review presents the evidence for the various interferon-inducing DNA receptors proposed to date, and examines the hypotheses that might explain why so many different receptors appear to be involved in the innate immune recognition of intracellular DNA."] 
25816762 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4424081/pdf/ Innate immune recognition of DNA: A recent history.
Virology ['Innate immune DNA sensing underpins many physiological and pathological responses to DNA, including anti-viral immunity to DNA viruses.
Although it has been appreciated for many years that cytosolic DNA can evoke a type I interferon response, it is only within the past decade that the cellular mechanisms responsible for such a response have been defined.
Here we review the discoveries that led to an appreciation of the existence of cytosolic DNA sensor proteins, and discuss two key such sensors, cGAS and IFI16, in detail.
DNA sensors operate via STING, a protein shown to have a central role in controlling altered gene induction in response to DNA in vivo, and as such to be central to a rapidly expanding list of both protective and harmful responses to DNA. We also discuss recent insights into how and when DNA stimulates innate immunity, and highlight current outstanding questions in the DNA sensing field.'] 
25517616 Currently the full-text not available STING-Dependent Cytosolic DNA Sensing Promotes Radiation-Induced Type I Interferon-Dependent Antitumor Immunity in Immunogenic Tumors.
Immunity ['Ionizing radiation-mediated tumor regression depends on type I interferon (IFN) and the adaptive immune response, but several pathways control I IFN induction.
Here, we demonstrate that adaptor protein STING, but not MyD88, is required for type I IFN-dependent antitumor effects of radiation.
In dendritic cells (DCs), STING was required for IFN-?
induction in response to irradiated-tumor cells.
The cytosolic DNA sensor cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP)
synthase (cGAS) mediated sensing of irradiated-tumor cells in DCs.
Moreover, STING was essential for radiation-induced adaptive immune responses, which relied on type I IFN signaling on DCs.
Exogenous IFN-?
treatment rescued the cross-priming by\xa0cGAS or STING-deficient DCs.
Accordingly, activation of STING by a second messenger cGAMP administration enhanced antitumor immunity induced by radiation.
Thus radiation-mediated antitumor immunity in immunogenic tumors requires a functional cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway and suggests that cGAMP treatment might provide a new strategy to improve radiotherapy.'] 
23092326 Currently the full-text not available Ellagic acid: cytodifferentiating and antiproliferative effects in human prostatic cancer cell lines.
Current pharmaceutical design [StringElement('Recently, increasing attention has been given to neuroendocrine differentiation (NED) of Prostate Cancer and its diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic potential.
During multistep carcinogenesis, cytodifferentiation of malignant/premalignant cells into more mature or normal-like cells, has become an attractive modality of treatment and promises to be a less toxic and a more specific targeting strategy than conventional chemotherapy.
In this study we investigated the capacity of a polyphenol, ellagic acid (EA), to induce differentiation of two prostate cancer cell lines: LnCap and DU145.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('NED markers, Chromogranin A (CgA) and p75NGFR levels were evaluated by immunocytochemistry.
DNA methyltransferase- 1 (DNMT-1) and phospho-Rb (p-Rb) expression were evaluated by western blotting.
Akt activation was evaluated by ELISA.
Finally the ability of EA to induce DNA damage in cancer cells was examined using the COMET assay.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Treatment with EA significantly reduced CgA levels and increased p75NGFR expression.
Moreover p-Rb, DNMT-1 levels and Akt activation/phosphorylation were decreased.
EA treatment induced, in a dose-dependent manner, a marked increase in DNA damage, both in LnCap and DU145 cell lines.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The results of this study demonstrate that EA treatment represents a new approach and highly effective strategy in reducing carcinogenesis.
Therefore, EA may be considered in a promising new class of cancer therapeutic agent, with both antiproliferative and pro-differentiation properties.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26828392 Currently the full-text not available Induction of interferon and cell death in response to cytosolic DNA in chicken macrophages.
Developmental and comparative immunology ['Responses to cytosolic DNA can protect against both infectious organisms and the mutagenic effect of DNA integration.
Recognition of invading DNA is likely to be fundamental to eukaryotic cellular life, but has been described only in mammals.
Introduction of DNA into chicken macrophages induced type
I interferon mRNA via a pathway conserved with mammals, requiring the receptor cGAS and the signalling protein STING. A second pathway of cytosolic DNA recognition in mammalian macrophages, initiated by absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2), results in rapid inflammasome-mediated pyroptotic cell death.
AIM2 is restricted to mammals.
Nevertheless, chicken macrophages underwent lytic cell death within 15\xa0min of DNA transfection.
The mouse AIM2-mediated response requires double stranded DNA, but chicken cell death was maintained with denatured DNA.
This appears to be a novel form of rapid necrotic cell death, which we propose is an ancient response rendered redundant in mammalian macrophages by the appearance of the AIM2 inflammasome.
The retention of these cytosolic DNA responses through evolution, with both conserved and non-conserved mechanisms, suggests a fundamental importance in cellular defence.'] 
23647843 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4382009/pdf/
Cyclic [G(2',5')pA(3',5')p] is the metazoan second messenger produced by DNA-activated cyclic GMP-AMP synthase.
Cell ["Recent studies identified cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) as a metazoan second messenger triggering an interferon response.
cGAMP is generated from GTP and ATP by cytoplasmic dsDNA sensor cGAMP synthase (cGAS).
We combined structural, chemical, biochemical, and cellular assays to demonstrate that this second messenger contains G(2',5')pA and A(3',5')pG phosphodiester linkages, designated c[G(2',5')pA(3',5')p].
We show that, upon dsDNA binding, cGAS is activated through conformational transitions, resulting in formation of a catalytically competent and accessible nucleotide-binding pocket for generation of c[G(2',5')pA(3',5')p].
We demonstrate that cyclization occurs in a stepwise manner through initial generation of 5'-pppG(2',5')pA prior to cyclization to c[G(2',5')pA(3',5')p], with the latter positioned precisely in the catalytic pocket.
Mutants of cGAS\xa0dsDNA-binding or catalytic pocket residues exhibit reduced or abrogated activity.
Our studies have identified c[G(2',5')pA(3',5')p] as a founding member of a family of metazoan 2',5'-containing cyclic heterodinucleotide second messengers distinct from bacterial 3',5' cyclic dinucleotides."] 
26354430 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4646299 [AVAILABLE ON 10/30/16]/pdf/
The emerging role of nuclear viral DNA sensors.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Detecting pathogenic DNA by intracellular receptors termed "sensors" is critical toward galvanizing host immune responses and eliminating microbial infections.
Emerging evidence has challenged the dogma that sensing of viral DNA occurs exclusively in sub-cellular compartments normally devoid of cellular DNA.
The interferon-inducible protein IFI16 was shown to bind nuclear viral DNA and initiate immune signaling, culminating in antiviral cytokine secretion.
Here, we review the newly characterized nucleus-originating immune signaling pathways, their links to other crucial host defenses, and unique mechanisms by which viruses suppress their functions.
We frame these findings in the context of human pathologies associated with nuclear replicating DNA viruses.'] 
11192575 Currently the full-text not available Expression of equine chromogranin A. CDNA sequence and distribution of mRNA in endocrine and exocrine tissues.
Advances in experimental medicine and biology 
25972544 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4505662/pdf/ Conservation of the STING-Mediated Cytosolic DNA Sensing Pathway in Zebrafish.
Journal of virology [StringElement('Zebrafish (Danio rerio) is a unique potential model animal for dissecting innate immune signaling.
Here we demonstrate that herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) could infect zebrafish at its different developmental stages and trigger the expression of type I interferons (IFNs) as well as interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in zebrafish larvae.
Silencing of zSTING, but not zMAVS, markedly attenuates the DNA virus-induced antiviral responses.
Notably, a conserved serine residue (S373) is essential for the action of zSTING. Unexpectedly, zebrafish cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is dispensable for the STING signaling, whereas zDHX9 and zDDX41 are potential sensors for HSV-1 infection in vivo.
Taken together, this proof-of-concept study establishes the zebrafish larva as a feasible model for investigating the cytosolic DNA sensing mechanism, shedding light on the conservation of the STING antiviral signaling pathway.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('The zebrafish larva provides technical advantages for understanding host-pathogen interactions.
In this study, we established the zebrafish larva as a useful model for studying HSV-1 infection.
HSV-1 infection triggers strong type I interferon production, which depends on STING expression.
In addition, STING-mediated antiviral signaling is conserved in zebrafish.
Interestingly, zDHX9 and zDDX41 are indispensable for detecting HSV-1, while cGAS is dispensable.
This proof-of-concept study indicates that the zebrafish represents an amenable model for the investigation of cytosolic DNA sensing mechanisms.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
10465282 Currently the full-text not available Frog chromogranin A messenger ribonucleic acid encodes three highly conserved peptides.
Coordinate regulation of proopiomelanocortin and
chromogranin A gene expression in the pars intermedia of the pituitary during background color adaptation.
Endocrinology ['Chromogranin A (CgA) is a neuroendocrine secretory protein that is widely used as a marker for endocrine neoplasms but whose function is not completely understood.
In mammals, it is thought that CgA is a precursor for biologically active peptides.
Here, we describe the cloning of a complementary DNA encoding CgA from a nonmammalian vertebrate, the frog Rana ridibunda.
Sequence analysis revealed that frog CgA exhibits only 40-44% amino acid sequence similarity with its mammalian homologues.
The amino acid identity is confined to three regions (70-80% identity) of the protein that are flanked by conserved pairs of basic amino acid residues, suggesting that proteolytic processing at these cleavage sites may give rise to three biologically active peptides whose sequences have been highly preserved during evolution.
Tissue distribution analysis by Northern blot and in situ hybridization revealed the widespread expression of frog CgA messenger RNA in the brain and in endocrine tissues, the highest concentration occurring in the distal lobe of the pituitary.
Adaptation of frog skin color to a dark background caused a concomitant increase in CgA and POMC messenger RNA levels in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary.
Taken together, these data indicate that CgA may function as a precursor to three highly conserved peptides that may exert regulatory functions in the neuroendocrine system.'] 
9492053 Currently the full-text not available Analysis of molecular mechanisms controlling neuroendocrine cell specific transcription of the chromogranin A gene.
Endocrinology [
"Chromogranin A (CgA), a member of the granin/secretogranin family of acidic glycoproteins that play multiple roles in the process of regulated secretion of peptide hormones and neurotransmitters, is specifically expressed in endocrine and neuroendocrine cells.
We previously cloned and characterized the human (h)
CgA gene and showed that nucleotides -55 to +32 relative to the transcriptional start site that contain a consensus cAMP element (CRE) and TATA-box motif were sufficient for neuroendocrine cell-specific expression.
Here, we examined the role of the well conserved CRE in basal and cAMP-stimulated transcription in neuroendocrine cells.
Transient transfection studies with hCgA gene promoter/chloroamphenical acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter constructs were conducted in a panel of neuroendocrine cell lines as well as in nonendocrine cell lines.
Deletion or mutation of the CRE resulted in loss of neuroendocrine cell specific transcriptional activity.
Mutation of a well conserved region (the TG-box) located between the CRE and the TATA box had no effect or resulted in only a modest decrease in activity.
Mutation of the CRE in 5'-extended (-2300 to +32 and -700 to +32
) constructs resulted in a 50-75% decrease in basal activity in neuroendocrine cells.
This emphasized the importance of the CRE in basal transcription and also suggested that other elements between -700 and -55 may act independently of the CRE to contribute to full basal activity in some neuroendocrine cells.
Dibutyryl cAMP stimulated transcriptional activity in neuroendocrine cells, and this was abolished by mutation of the CRE.
In the presence of a PKA inhibitor, dibutyryl cAMP-induced activity was completely abolished and basal activity was decreased by up to 85%.
Similar protein-DNA complexes were formed in gel retardation assays with a CgA-CRE oligonucleotide and nuclear extracts from both neuroendocrine and nonendocrine cells.
A predominant complex that was supershifted by addition of a CREB antibody was identical in all cell types.
By immunoblot analysis, levels of total CREB protein and phosphorylated (Ser 133)
CREB did not differ between neuroendocrine and nonendocrine cells.
Phosphorylated CREB was increased by forskolin treatment, an effect that was blocked by a PKA-inhibitor.
Expression of the transcriptional cointegrator, CREB-binding protein (CBP), assessed by both RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, did not differ between neuroendocrine and nonendocrine cells.
In summary, the CRE in the hCgA gene proximal promoter is critical for both basal and cAMP-induced expression in neuroendocrine cells via a PKA-mediated pathway.
However, the neuroendocrine specificity of hCgA gene transcription mediated by the CRE is not a function of levels of total CREB or phosphorylated CREB or its cointegrator CBP. Specificity may be achieved by a PKA-responsive CRE-binding protein other than CREB expressed specifically in neuroendocrine cells, expression of a repressor molecule that binds CREB in nonendocrine cells, or may lie downstream of a CRE-binding protein, e.g. in the activity or amount of cointegrators other than CBP, which are required to couple transactivators to the basal transcriptional machinery."] 
25517615 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4384884/pdf/
STING-dependent cytosolic DNA sensing mediates innate immune recognition of immunogenic tumors.
Immunity ['Spontaneous T\xa0cell responses against tumors occur frequently and have prognostic value in patients.
The mechanism of innate immune sensing of immunogenic tumors leading to adaptive T\xa0cell responses remains undefined, although type I interferons (IFNs) are implicated in this process.
We found that spontaneous CD8(+) T\xa0cell priming against tumors was defective in mice lacking stimulator of interferon genes complex (STING), but not other innate signaling pathways, suggesting involvement of a cytosolic DNA sensing pathway.
In\xa0vitro, IFN-?
production and dendritic cell activation were triggered by tumor-cell-derived DNA, via cyclic-GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), STING, and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3).
In the tumor microenvironment in\xa0vivo, tumor cell DNA was detected within host antigen-presenting cells, which correlated with STING pathway activation and IFN-?
production.
Our results demonstrate that a major mechanism for innate immune sensing of cancer occurs via the host STING pathway, with major implications for cancer immunotherapy.'] 
9852054 Currently the full-text not available Sp1 and CREB mediate gastrin-dependent regulation of chromogranin A promoter activity in gastric carcinoma cells.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Chromogranin A (CgA) is a multifunctional acidic protein that in the stomach is expressed predominantly in enterochromaffin-like cells (ECL cells) where it is regulated by gastrin.
In order to investigate the transcriptional response of the mouse CgA (mCgA) promoter to gastrin stimulation, we studied a 4.8-kilobase mCgA promoter-luciferase reporter gene construct in transiently transfected AGS-B cells.
5\'-Deletion analysis and scanning mutagenesis of mCgA 5\'-flanking DNA showed that a Sp1/Egr-1 site spanning -88 to -77 base pairs (bp) and a cyclic AMP-responsive element (CRE) at -71 to -64 bp are essential for gastrin-dependent mCgA transactivation.
Gastrin stimulation increased cellular Sp1 protein levels and Sp1-binding to the mCgA -88 to -77 bp element, as well as binding of CREB to its consensus motif at -71 to -64 bp.
Gastrin also stimulated CREB Ser-133 phosphorylation, and abundance of cellular CREB protein levels.
Overexpression of either Sp1 or phosphorylated CREB transactivated the mCgA promoter dose dependently, while coexpression of both transcription factors resulted in an additive mCgA promoter response.
mCgA -92 to -64 bp, comprising the Sp1/Egr-1 site and the CRE motif, conferred gastrin responsiveness to a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter system, and therefore functions as a "true" enhancer element.
This report demonstrates that Sp1 and CREB mediate CCK-B/gastrin receptor-dependent gene regulation, and that the effect of gastrin on the CgA gene is brought about by cooperative action of both transcription factors.'] 
24309426 Currently the full-text not available STING-dependent cytosolic DNA sensing pathways.
Trends in immunology ['STING (STimulator of INterferon Genes) has recently been identified as being essential for controlling host defense countermeasures triggered by microbial cytosolic DNA and subsequently cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs).
However, chronic STING activation may also be responsible for initiating certain inflammatory diseases manifested by self DNA. Recent studies have also revealed a key role for cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) in STING activation.
Although a full understanding of the mechanisms of STING activation requires further studies, new insights into STING function afford the opportunity of designing novel compounds aimed at facilitating vaccine development or new therapies for the treatment of inflammatory disease.'] 
25002095 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4348004/pdf/
Cellular sensing of viral DNA and viral evasion mechanisms.
Annual review of microbiology ['Mammalian cells detect foreign DNA introduced as free DNA or as a result of microbial infection, leading to the induction of innate immune responses that block microbial replication and the activation of mechanisms that epigenetically silence the genes encoded by the foreign DNA.
A number of DNA sensors localized to a variety of sites within the cell have been identified, and this review focuses on the mechanisms that detect viral DNA and how the resulting responses affect viral infections.
Viruses have evolved mechanisms that inhibit these host sensors and signaling pathways, and the study of these antagonistic viral strategies has provided insight into the mechanisms of these host responses.
The field of cellular sensing of foreign DNA is in its infancy, but our currently limited knowledge has raised a number of important questions for study.'] 
25742715 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4424148/pdf/
Nuclear sensing of viral DNA, epigenetic regulation of herpes simplex virus infection, and innate immunity.
Virology ['Herpes simplex virus (HSV) undergoes a lytic infection in epithelial cells and a latent infection in neuronal cells, and epigenetic mechanisms play a major role in the differential gene expression under the two conditions.
HSV viron DNA is not associated with histones but is rapidly loaded with heterochromatin upon entry into the cell.
Viral proteins promote reversal of the epigenetic silencing in epithelial cells while the viral latency-associated transcript promotes additional heterochromatin in neuronal cells.
The cellular sensors that initiate the chromatinization of foreign DNA have not been fully defined.
IFI16 and cGAS are both essential for innate sensing of HSV DNA, and new evidence shows how they work together to initiate innate signaling.
IFI16 also plays a role in the heterochromatinization of HSV DNA, and this review will examine how IFI16 integrates epigenetic regulation and innate sensing of foreign viral DNA to show how these two responses are related.'] 
16728727 Currently the full-text not available Colocalization of the alpha-subunit of gustducin with PYY and GLP-1 in L cells of human colon.
American journal of physiology.
Gastrointestinal and liver physiology ['In view of the importance of molecular sensing in the function of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, we assessed whether signal transduction proteins that mediate taste signaling are expressed in cells of the human gut.
Here, we demonstrated that the alpha-subunit of the taste-specific G protein gustducin (Galpha(gust)) is expressed prominently in cells of the human colon that also contain chromogranin A, an established marker of endocrine cells.
Double-labeling immunofluorescence and staining of serial sections demonstrated that Galpha(gust) localized to enteroendocrine L cells that express peptide YY and glucagon-like peptide-1 in the human colonic mucosa.
We also found expression of transcripts encoding human type 2 receptor (hT2R) family members, hT1R3, and Galpha(gust) in the human colon and in the human intestinal endocrine cell lines (HuTu-80 and NCI-H716 cells).
Stimulation of HuTu-80 or NCI-H716 cells with the bitter-tasting compound phenylthiocarbamide, which binds hT2R38, induced a rapid increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration in these cells.
The identification of Galpha(gust) and chemosensory receptors that perceive chemical components of ingested substances, including drugs and toxins, in open enteroendocrine L cells has important implications for understanding molecular sensing in the human GI tract and for developing novel therapeutic compounds that modify the function of these receptors in the gut.'] 
25012983 Currently the full-text not available Pasireotide and octreotide antiproliferative effects and sst2 trafficking in human pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor cultures.
Endocrine-related cancer ['Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) raise difficult therapeutic problems despite the emergence of targeted therapies.
Somatostatin analogs (SSA) remain pivotal therapeutic drugs.
However, the tachyphylaxis and the limited antitumoral effects observed with the classical somatostatin 2 (sst2) agonists (octreotide and lanreotide) led to the development of new SSA, such as the pan sst receptor agonist pasireotide.
Our aim was to compare the effects of pasireotide and octreotide on cell survival, chromogranin A (CgA) secretion, and sst2 phosphorylation/trafficking in pancreatic NET (pNET) primary cells from 15 tumors.
We established and characterized the primary cultures of human pancreatic tumors (pNETs) as powerful preclinical models for understanding the biological effects of SSA. At clinically relevant concentrations (1-10\u200anM), pasireotide was at least as efficient as octreotide in inhibiting CgA secretion and cell viability through caspase-dependent apoptosis during short treatments, irrespective of the expression levels of the different sst receptors or the WHO grade of the parental tumor.
Interestingly, unlike octreotide, which induces a rapid and persistent partial internalization of sst2 associated with its phosphorylation on Ser341/343, pasireotide did not phosphorylate sst2 and induced a rapid and transient internalization of the receptor followed by a persistent recycling at the cell surface.
These results provide the first evidence, to our knowledge, of striking differences in the dynamics of sst2 trafficking in pNET cells treated with the two SSAs, but with similar efficiency in the control of CgA secretion and cell viability.'] 
25642965 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4409480/pdf/
Mitochondrial DNA stress primes the antiviral innate immune response.
Nature ['Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is normally present at thousands of copies per cell and is packaged into several hundred higher-order structures termed nucleoids.
The abundant mtDNA-binding protein TFAM (transcription factor A, mitochondrial) regulates nucleoid architecture, abundance and segregation.
Complete mtDNA depletion profoundly impairs oxidative phosphorylation, triggering calcium-dependent stress signalling and adaptive metabolic responses.
However, the cellular responses to mtDNA instability, a physiologically relevant stress observed in many human diseases and ageing, remain poorly defined.
Here we show that moderate mtDNA stress elicited by TFAM deficiency engages cytosolic antiviral signalling to enhance the expression of a subset of interferon-stimulated genes.
Mechanistically, we find that aberrant mtDNA packaging promotes escape of mtDNA into the cytosol, where it engages the DNA sensor cGAS (also known as MB21D1) and promotes STING (also known as TMEM173)-IRF3-dependent signalling to elevate interferon-stimulated gene expression, potentiate type I interferon responses and confer broad viral resistance.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that herpesviruses induce mtDNA stress, which enhances antiviral signalling and type I interferon responses during infection.
Our results further demonstrate that mitochondria are central participants in innate immunity, identify mtDNA stress as a cell-intrinsic trigger of antiviral signalling and suggest that cellular monitoring of mtDNA homeostasis cooperates with canonical virus sensing mechanisms to fully engage antiviral innate immunity.'] 
22847723 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3642266/pdf/
Carcinosarcoma ex non-recurrent pleomorphic adenoma composed of TTF-1 positive large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and myofibrosarcoma: apropos a rare Case.
Head and neck pathology ['We present a carcinosarcoma ex non-recurrent pleomorphic adenoma composed of a large cell neuroendocrine carcinomatous component and a spindle cell sarcoma with myofibroblastic differentiation.
The tumor contained a hyalinized transition zone where the classical PA appeared to acquire two different histopathological patterns of malignant transformation of the epithelial component.
The carcinomatous component was strongly and diffusely positive for low-molecular weight cytokeratins (AE1-3), synaptophysin, thyroid transcription factor-1 and focally positive for chromogranin A. All these markers were negative in the sarcomatous component.
The sarcomatous component displayed immunoreactivity for smooth muscle actin with a predominantly linear, subplasmalemmal pattern.
No expression of CD31, S100 protein, h-caldesmon, desmin, CD34, p63, myogenin, Myo D1 and c-kit was detected.
Strong immunohistochemical expression of p53 was documented in both the carcinomatous and sarcomatous components as well as in the atypical epithelial component in the transition zone associated with the hyalinized pleomorphic adenoma.'] 
25963713 Currently the full-text not available [Epithelial neuroendocrine tumors of the upper respiratory tract: New entities, new perspectives].
Der Pathologe ['Epithelial neuroendocrine tumors of the upper respiratory tract are rare and are classified as typical and atypical carcinoid versus small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma.
Furthermore, a giant cell variant of neuroendocrine carcinoma is suggested corresponding to the bronchopulmonary system as well as a recently described subtype of oropharyngeal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus.
Many arguments relying on clinical as well as on molecular findings indicate that the distinction between carcinoid and poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma does not only reflect different degrees of differentiation of otherwise related tumors but indicates the existence of substantially different types of neoplasms.'] 
23419517
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3641596/pdf/ DNA sensing unchained.
Cell research ['In two recent reports in Science, James Chen and colleagues provide compelling evidence that detection of cytosolic DNA triggers the production of a novel second messenger, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), which in turn activates a signaling pathway that induces type I interferons (IFNs) in a STING-dependent manner.
They further unravel a key role for a so far uncharacterized murine protein E330016A19 (human homolog: C6ORF150), now termed cGAMP synthetase (cGAS), to act as the DNA sensor that generates cGAMP.'] 
20306832 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine differentiation in breast cancer: established facts and unresolved problems.
Seminars in diagnostic pathology ['Neuroendocrine breast carcinoma (NEBC) diagnosis relies on (i) presence of morphologic neuroendocrine features, and (ii) neuroendocrine markers expressed in more than 50% of tumor cells.
The World Health Organization classification describes 3 main histologic types: the solid, the small/oat cell, and the large cell variant.
In addition, we have recently proposed a further categorization into 5 subgroups: the first 3 categories encompass solid lesions and include (i) solid cohesive carcinomas, (ii) alveolar carcinomas, and (iii) small cell carcinoma; the last subgroups include mucin-producing tumors which are (iv) solid papillary carcinomas and (v) cellular mucinous carcinomas.
Chromogranin A and synaptophysin have been considered as the most sensitive and specific neuroendocrine markers in NEBC.
At the molecular level, recent gene expression profiling studies have shown that NEBCs pertain to the luminal molecular type, being positive for hormone receptors and negative for HER2.
Moreover, it has been demonstrated that mucinous and neuroendocrine carcinomas are transcriptionally distinct from conventional invasive ductal carcinomas.
Following the above criteria, NEBCs constitute approximately 1% of all breast carcinomas.
The clinical effect of neuroendocrine breast cancer is still a matter of debate; however, when compared with unselected breast cancers, NEBCs show a less aggressive clinical behavior.'] 
25701886 Currently the full-text not available Innate recognition of alphaherpesvirus DNA. Advances in virus research ['Alphaherpesviruses include human and animal pathogens, such as herpes simplex virus type 1, which establish life-long latent infections with episodes of recurrence.
The immunocompetence of the infected host is an important determinant for the outcome of infections with alphaherpesviruses.
Recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns by pattern recognition receptors is an essential, early step in the innate immune response to pathogens.
In recent years, it has been discovered that herpesvirus DNA is a strong inducer of the innate immune system.
The viral genome can be recognized in endosomes by TLR9, as well as intracellularly by a variety of DNA sensors, the best documented being cGAS, RNA Pol III, IFI16, and AIM2.
These DNA sensors use converging signaling pathways to activate transcription factors, such as IRF3 and NF-κB, which induce the expression of type I interferons and other inflammatory cytokines and activate the inflammasome.
This review summarizes the recent literature on the innate sensing of alphaherpesvirus DNA, the mechanisms of activation of the different sensors, their mechanisms of signal transduction, their physiological role in defense against herpesvirus infection, and how alphaherpesviruses seek to evade these responses to allow establishment and maintenance of infection.'] 
27264171 Currently the full-text not available Type I Interferon Induction by Neisseria gonorrhoeae: Dual Requirement of Cyclic GMP-AMP Synthase and Toll-like Receptor 4.
Cell reports ["The innate immune system is the first line of defense against Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC).
Exposure of cells to GC lipooligosaccharides induces a strong immune response, leading to type I interferon (IFN) production via TLR4/MD-2.
In addition to living freely in the extracellular space, GC can invade the cytoplasm to evade detection and elimination.
Double-stranded DNA introduced into the cytosol binds and activates the enzyme cyclic-GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), which produces 2'3'-cGAMP and triggers STING/TBK-1/IRF3 activation, resulting in type I IFN expression.
Here, we reveal a cytosolic response to GC DNA that also contributes to type I IFN induction.
We demonstrate that complete IFN-β induction by live GC depends on both cGAS and TLR4.
Type I IFN is detrimental to the host, and dysregulation of iron homeostasis genes may explain lower bacteria survival in cGAS(-/-) and TLR4(-/-) cells.
Collectively, these observations reveal cooperation between TLRs and cGAS in immunity to GC infection."] 
24349538 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3857317/pdf/
Cell type-specific subcellular localization of phospho-TBK1 in response to cytoplasmic viral DNA. PloS one ['Cytoplasmic viral RNA and DNA are recognized by RIG-I-like receptors and DNA sensors that include DAI, IFI16, DDX41, and cGAS. The RNA and DNA sensors evoke innate immune responses through the IPS-1 and STING adaptors.
IPS-1 and STING activate TBK1 kinase.
TBK1 is phosphorylated in its activation loop, leading to IRF3/7 activation and Type I interferon (IFN) production.
IPS-1 and STING localize to the mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, respectively, whereas it is unclear where phosphorylated TBK1 is localized in response to cytoplasmic viral DNA.
Here, we investigated phospho-TBK1 (p-TBK1) subcellular localization using a p-TBK1-specific antibody.
Stimulation with vertebrate DNA by transfection increased p-TBK1 levels.
Interestingly, stimulation-induced p-TBK1 exhibited mitochondrial localization in HeLa and HepG2 cells and colocalized with mitochondrial IPS-1 and MFN-1.
Hepatitis B virus DNA stimulation or herpes simplex virus type-1 infection also induced p-TBK1 mitochondrial localization in HeLa cells, indicating that cytoplasmic viral DNA induces p-TBK1 mitochondrial localization in HeLa cells.
In contrast, p-TBK1 did not show mitochondrial localization in RAW264.7, L929, or T-23 cells, and most of p-TBK1 colocalized with STING in response to cytoplasmic DNA in those mammalian cells, indicating cell type-specific localization of p-TBK1 in response to cytoplasmic viral DNA. A previous knockout study showed that mouse IPS-1 was dispensable for Type I IFN production in response to cytoplasmic DNA.
However, we found that knockdown of IPS-1 markedly reduced p-TBK1 levels in HeLa cells.
Taken together, our data elucidated the cell type-specific subcellular localization of p-TBK1 and a cell type-specific role of IPS-1 in TBK1 activation in response to cytoplasmic viral DNA.'] 
7615829 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC185231/pdf/
A functional cyclic AMP response element plays a crucial role in neuroendocrine cell type-specific expression of the secretory granule protein chromogranin A. The Journal of clinical investigation ['Chromogranin A, a soluble acidic protein, is a ubiquitous component of secretory vesicles throughout the neuroendocrine system.
We reported previously the cloning and initial characterization of the mouse chromogranin A gene promoter, which showed that the promoter contains both positive and negative domains and that a proximal promoter spanning nucleotides -147 to +42 bp relative to the transcriptional start site is sufficient for neuroendocrine cell type-specific expression.
The current study was undertaken to identify the particular elements within this proximal promoter that control tissue-specific expression.
We found that deletion or point mutations in the potential cAMP response element (CRE) site at -68 bp virtually abolished promoter activity specifically in neuroendocrine (PC12 chromaffin or AtT20 corticotrope) cells, with little effect on activity in control (NIH3T3 fibroblast) cells; thus, the CRE box is necessary for neuroendocrine cell type-specific activity of the chromogranin A promoter.
Furthermore, the effect of the CRE site is enhanced in the context of intact (wild-type) promoter sequences between -147 and -100 bp.
DNase I footprint analysis showed that these regions (including the CRE box) bind nuclear proteins present in both neuroendocrine (AtT20) and control (NIH3T3) cells.
In AtT20 cells, electrophoretic mobility shift assays and factor-specific antibody supershifts showed that an oligonucleotide containing the chromogranin A CRE site formed a single, homogeneous protein-DNA complex containing the CRE-binding protein CREB.
However, in control NIH3T3 cells we found evidence for an additional immunologically unrelated protein in this complex.
A single copy of this oligonucleotide was able to confer neuroendocrine-specific expression to a heterologous (thymidine kinase) promoter, albeit with less fold selectivity than the full proximal chromogranin
A promoter.
Hence, the CRE site was partially sufficient to explain the neuroendocrine cell type specificity of the promoter.
The functional activity of the CRE site was confirmed through studies of the endogenous chromogranin
A gene.
Northern mRNA analysis showed that expression of the endogenous chromogranin
A gene was stimulated seven- to eightfold by cAMP in PC12 cells, whereas no induction occurred in the NIH3T3 cells.
Similar cAMP induction was obtained with the transfected chromogranin A promoter in PC12 cells, and abolition of the CRE site (by deletion or point mutation) eliminated the induction.
Thus, the CRE site in the chromogranin
A proximal promoter is functional and plays a crucial, indeed indispensable, role in neuroendocrine-specific expression of the gene.
These results also provide insight into transcriptional mechanisms governing acquisition of the neuroendocrine secretory phenotype.'] 
25595276 Currently the full-text not available
A registry-based study of thyroid paraganglioma: histological and genetic characteristics.
Endocrine-related cancer ['The precise diagnosis of thyroid neoplasias will guide surgical management.
Primary thyroid paraganglioma has been rarely reported.
Data on prevalence, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and molecular genetics in a systematic series of such patients are pending.
We performed a multinational population-based study on thyroid paraganglioma and analyzed prevalence, IHC, and molecular genetics.
Patients with thyroid paraganglioma were recruited from the European-American-Head-and-Neck-Paraganglioma-Registry.
Demographic and clinical data were registered.
Histopathology and IHC were re-investigated.
All patients with thyroid paraganglioma underwent molecular genetic analyses of the SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, SDHAF2, VHL, RET, TMEM127, and MAX genes.
Analyses included Sanger sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) for detection of large rearrangements.
Of 947 registrants, eight candidates were initially identified.
After immunohistochemical analyses of these eight subjects, 5 (0.5%) were confirmed to have thyroid paraganglioma.
IHC was positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and S-100 and negative for calcitonin in all five thyroid paragangliomas, whereas the three excluded candidate tumors stained positive for pan-cytokeratin, a marker excluding endocrine tumors.
Germline variants, probably representing mutations, were found in four of the five confirmed thyroid paraganglioma cases, two each in SDHA and SDHB, whereas the excluded cases had no mutations in the tested genes.
Thyroid paraganglioma is a finite entity, which must be differentiated from medullary thyroid carcinoma, because medical, surgical, and genetic management for each is different.
Notably, approximately 80% of thyroid paragangliomas are associated with germline variants, with implications for additional tumors and a potential risk for the family.
As opposed to sporadic tumors, surgical management and extent of resection are different for heritable tumors, each guided by the precise gene involved.'] 
19155316 Currently the full-text not available The syndrome of gastric carcinoid and hyperparathyroidism: a family study and literature review.
European journal of endocrinology [StringElement('To present evidence supporting the hypothesis that the coexistence of gastric carcinoids (GCs) and hyperparathyroidism may represent a distinct clinical entity, not related to multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('We studied a cohort of five young siblings (age range 26-42 years), one of whom had been found to have GC and hyperparathyroidism.
All siblings underwent serial gastroscopies for the assessment of gastric neuroendocrine cell proliferations over a mean follow-up period of 31.2 months.
Imaging, biochemical and hormonal as well as molecular genetic investigations were performed in the direction of MEN1 syndrome.
The literature was searched for cases with coexistence of GCs and hyperparathyroidism not associated with MEN1.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Four of the siblings, all male, were found to have GCs in a background of Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic atrophic gastritis and pernicious anaemia, with no serological evidence of gastric autoimmunity.
In two of them, asymptomatic hyperparathyroidism was also present.
Screening for MEN1 gene mutations or large deletions was negative, and hormone and imaging investigations did not support a diagnosis of familial MEN1 syndrome.
A literature search revealed sporadic reports of cases with GC and hyperparathyroidism not attributable to MEN1.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement("The association of GCs and hyperparathyroidism appears to constitute a distinct syndrome that can be encountered in genetically predisposed individuals, and should not be regarded as 'atypical' or 'incomplete' expression of MEN1.
Its prevalence and aetiology should be the subject of future studies.
Screening for hyperparathyroidism seems to be justified in patients with GC of any type.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
11598168 Currently the full-text not available Clinicopathologic and DNA cytometric analysis of carcinoid tumors of the thymus.
Modern pathology : an official journal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology, Inc ['Twelve cases of carcinoid tumors of the thymus were reviewed in terms of clinicopathologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features and DNA ploidy patterns.
The collective consisted of nine male and three female patients, aged 34 to 74 years, of whom five (42%) had symptoms.
Eleven patients underwent surgical resection, and one with systemic metastases was autopsied.
In the 11 resected patients, tumors had invaded surrounding structures in four cases, and mediastinal lymph node metastases were detected in six.
Recurrence occurred in two of the resected patients (18%), and the 5-year survival rate was 82%.
Histologically, all tumors showed an organoid growth pattern with delicate fibrovascular stroma.
In addition, three tumors had unusual morphologic features such as combined features of carcinoid tumor and thymoma and solid growth pattern with occasional large tumor cells.
Mitotic counts ranged from 1 to 14 per 10 high-power fields with a mean count of 4.9.
Central necrosis within solid nests was observed in nine tumors.
Classification of this series using the WHO histologic classification system resulted in categorization of all 12 tumors as atypical carcinoids.
All tumors were positive for Grimelius staining and for cytokeratin.
Immunohistochemical staining documented the presence of moderately to strongly positive neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neural cell adhesion molecule.
No correlation between proliferative activity based on the Ki67 labeling index and prognosis or lymph node metastasis was found.
Concerning DNA ploidy patterns, only one tumor with multiple lymph node metastases was considered to be aneuploid.
In conclusion, although all of our cases were histologically classified as atypical carcinoid tumors of the thymus, most were diploid, and the patients enjoyed a relatively good prognosis.'] 
27509857 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4998957
[AVAILABLE ON 02/18/17]/pdf/ HIV-1 uses dynamic capsid pores to import nucleotides and fuel encapsidated DNA synthesis.
Nature [
"
During the early stages of infection, the HIV-1 capsid protects viral components from cytosolic sensors and nucleases such as cGAS and TREX, respectively, while allowing access to nucleotides for efficient reverse transcription.
Here we show that each capsid hexamer has a size-selective pore bound by a ring of six arginine residues and a 'molecular iris' formed by the amino-terminal β-hairpin.
The arginine ring creates a strongly positively charged channel that recruits the four nucleotides with on-rates that approach diffusion limits.
Progressive removal of pore arginines results in a dose-dependent and concomitant decrease in nucleotide affinity, reverse transcription and infectivity.
This positively charged channel is universally conserved in lentiviral capsids despite the fact that it is strongly destabilizing without nucleotides to counteract charge repulsion.
We also describe a channel inhibitor, hexacarboxybenzene, which competes for nucleotide binding and efficiently blocks encapsidated reverse transcription, demonstrating the tractability of the pore as a novel drug target."
] 
22406745 Currently the full-text not available Functional engraftment of colon epithelium expanded in vitro from a single adult Lgr5⁺ stem cell.
Nature medicine ['Adult stem-cell therapy holds promise for the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases.
Here we describe methods for long-term expansion of colonic stem cells positive for leucine-rich repeat containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 (Lgr5(+) cells) in culture.
To test the transplantability of these cells, we reintroduced cultured GFP(+) colon organoids into superficially damaged mouse colon.
The transplanted donor cells readily integrated into the mouse colon, covering the area that lacked epithelium as a result of the introduced damage in recipient mice.
At 4 weeks after transplantation, the donor-derived cells constituted a single-layered epithelium, which formed self-renewing crypts that were functionally and histologically normal.
Moreover, we observed long-term (>6 months) engraftment with transplantation of organoids derived from a single Lgr5(+) colon stem cell after extensive in vitro expansion.
These data show the feasibility of colon stem-cell therapy based on the in vitro expansion of a single adult colonic stem cell.'] 
27707838 Currently the full-text not available Activation of STING-Dependent Innate Immune Signaling By S-Phase-Specific DNA Damage in Breast Cancer.
Journal of the National Cancer Institute [StringElement('Previously we identified a DNA damage response-deficient (DDRD) molecular subtype within breast cancer.
A 44-gene assay identifying this subtype was validated as predicting benefit from DNA-damaging chemotherapy.
This subtype was defined by interferon signaling.
In this study, we address the mechanism of this immune response and its possible clinical significance.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We used immunohistochemistry (IHC) to characterize immune infiltration in 184 breast cancer samples, of which 65 were within the DDRD subtype.
Isogenic cell lines, which represent DDRD-positive and -negative, were used to study the effects of chemokine release on peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) migration and the mechanism of immune signaling activation.
Finally, we studied the association between the DDRD subtype and expression of the immune-checkpoint protein PD-L1 as detected by IHC. All statistical tests were two-sided.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement("We found that DDRD breast tumors were associated with CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytic infiltration (Fisher's exact test P < .001) and that DDRD cells expressed the chemokines CXCL10 and CCL5 3.5- to 11.9-fold more than DNA damage response-proficient cells (P < .01).
Conditioned medium from DDRD cells statistically significantly attracted PBMCs when compared with medium from DNA damage response-proficient cells (P < .05), and this was dependent on CXCL10 and CCL5.
DDRD cells demonstrated increased cytosolic DNA and constitutive activation of the viral response cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 pathway.
Importantly, this pathway was activated in a cell cycle-specific manner.
Finally, we demonstrated that S-phase DNA damage activated expression of PD-L1 in a STING-dependent manner.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We propose a novel mechanism of immune infiltration in DDRD tumors, independent of neoantigen production.
Activation of this pathway and associated PD-L1 expression may explain the paradoxical lack of T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity observed in DDRD tumors.
We provide a rationale for exploration of DDRD in the stratification of patients for immune checkpoint-based therapies.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
27076640 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4886774
[AVAILABLE ON 11/27/16]/pdf/ Herpes Simplex Virus 1 Serine Protease VP24 Blocks the DNA-Sensing Signal Pathway by Abrogating Activation of Interferon Regulatory Factor 3.
Journal of virology [StringElement('The interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral response is a central aspect of host defense; however, viruses have evolved multiple strategies to counteract IFN-mediated responses in order to successfully infect the host.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), a typical human-restricted DNA virus, is capable of counteracting host immune responses via several distinct viral proteins, thus establishing a lifelong latent infection.
In this study, we demonstrate that the VP24 protein, a serine protease of HSV-1 essential for the formation and maturation of capsids, is a novel antagonist of the beta interferon (IFN-β) pathway.
Here, VP24 was shown for the first time to dampen interferon stimulatory DNA (ISD)-triggered IFN-β production and inhibit IFN-β promoter activation induced by cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and by STING, respectively.
Further study demonstrated that ectopic expression of VP24 selectively blocked IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) but not NF-κB promoter activation.
In addition, VP24 was demonstrated to downregulate ISD-induced phosphorylation and dimerization of IRF3 during HSV-1 infection with a VP24 stable knockdown human foreskin fibroblast cell line.
The underlying molecular mechanism is that VP24 abrogates the interaction between TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and IRF3, hence impairing IRF3 activation.
These results illustrate that VP24 is able to block the production of IFN-β by inhibiting IRF3 activation, which may represent a critical adaptation to enable viral effective replication within the host.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('This study demonstrated that HSV-1 protein VP24 could inhibit IFN-β production and promoter activation triggered by ISD, cGAS and STING and by STING, respectively.
VP24 selectively blocked IRF3 promoter activation and ISD-induced phosphorylation and dimerization of IRF3 without affecting the NF-κB promoter activation during viral infection.
VP24 also inhibited IRF3 activation by impeding the interaction between TBK1 and IRF3 during viral infection.
This study provides new insights into the immune evasion mediated by HSV-1 and identifies VP24 as a crucial effector for HSV-1 to evade the host DNA-sensing signal pathway.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'IMPORTANCE'})] 
27271801 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4897736/pdf/ Structural and biochemical characterization of the cell fate determining nucleotidyltransferase fold protein MAB21L1.
Scientific reports ["The exceptionally conserved metazoan MAB21 proteins are implicated in cell fate decisions and share considerable sequence homology with the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase.
cGAS is the major innate immune sensor for cytosolic DNA and produces the second messenger 2'-5', 3'-5' cyclic GMP-AMP. Little is known about the structure and biochemical function of other proteins of the cGAS-MAB21 subfamily, such as MAB21L1, MAB21L2 and MAB21L3.
We have determined the crystal structure of human full-length MAB21L1.
Our analysis reveals high structural conservation between MAB21L1 and cGAS but also uncovers important differences.
Although monomeric in solution, MAB21L1 forms a highly symmetric double-pentameric oligomer in the crystal, raising the possibility that oligomerization could be a feature of MAB21L1.
In the crystal, MAB21L1 is in an inactive conformation requiring a conformational change - similar to cGAS - to develop any nucleotidyltransferase activity.
Co-crystallization with NTP identified a putative ligand binding site of MAB21 proteins that corresponds to the DNA binding site of cGAS.
Finally, we offer a structure-based explanation for the effects of MAB21L2 mutations in patients with eye malformations.
The underlying residues participate in fold-stabilizing interaction networks and mutations destabilize the protein.
In summary, we provide a first structural framework for MAB21 proteins."] 
25002588 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4156042/pdf/ Interferon γ-inducible protein (IFI) 16 transcriptionally regulates type i interferons and other interferon-stimulated genes and controls the interferon response to both DNA and RNA viruses.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['The interferon γ-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) has recently been linked to the detection of nuclear and cytosolic DNA during infection with herpes simplex virus-1 and HIV. IFI16 binds dsDNA via HIN200 domains and activates stimulator of interferon genes (STING), leading to TANK (TRAF family member-associated NF-κB activator)-binding kinase-1 (TBK1)-dependent phosphorylation of interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 3 and transcription of type I interferons (IFNs) and related genes.
To better understand the role of IFI16 in coordinating type I IFN gene regulation, we generated cell lines with stable knockdown of IFI16 and examined responses to DNA and RNA viruses as well as cyclic dinucleotides.
As expected, stable knockdown of IFI16 led to a severely attenuated type I IFN response to DNA ligands and viruses.
In contrast, expression of the NF-κB-regulated cytokines IL-6 and IL-1β was unaffected in IFI16 knockdown cells, suggesting that the role of IFI16 in sensing these triggers was unique to the type I IFN pathway.
Surprisingly, we also found that knockdown of IFI16 led to a severe attenuation of IFN-α and the IFN-stimulated gene retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) in response to cyclic GMP-AMP, a second messenger produced by cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) as well as RNA ligands and viruses.
Analysis of IFI16 knockdown cells revealed compromised occupancy of RNA polymerase II on the IFN-α promoter in these cells, suggesting that transcription of IFN-stimulated genes is dependent on IFI16.
These results indicate a broader role for IFI16 in the regulation of the type I IFN response to RNA and DNA viruses in antiviral immunity.'] 
7655739 Currently the full-text not available The prevalence and clinical significance of chromogranin A and secretogranin II immunoreactivity in colorectal adenocarcinomas.
Virchows Archiv : an international journal of pathology ['Colorectal adenocarcinomas may display features of endocrine differentiation, shown by argyrophil stains and by the expression of endocrine markers such as chromogranin A. We investigated chromogranin A and secretogranin II immunoreactivity in a series of 208 carcinomas of the large bowel to assess the prevalence and clinical significance of endocrine differentiation.
Tumors expressing endocrine markers were classified as low expressors (< than 1 immunoreactive tumour cell/mm2) and high expressors (> than 1 immunoreactive tumour cell/mm2).
There were 33 (16%)
carcinomas showing both chromogranin A and secretogranin II immunoreactivity: 11 tumours (5%) were high expressors.
Endocrine differentiation was not related to the disease stage, tumour location, grade, DNA ploidy and p53 protein accumulation.
In the entire series chromogranin A immunoreactivity did not provide prognostic information using univariate and multivariate analysis.
A worse overall survival (P = 0.048) was demonstrated for the stage III patients with high expressor tumours, but there were only five patients in this group.
The results of our investigation suggest that chromogranin
A immunoreactivity is not a useful variable in the prognostic assessment of colorectal adenocarcinomas.'] 
27824940 Currently the full-text not available Invertebrate Iridescent Virus 6, a DNA Virus, Stimulates a Mammalian Innate Immune Response through RIG-I-Like Receptors.
PloS one [StringElement('Insects are not only major vectors of mammalian viruses, but are also host to insect-restricted viruses that can potentially be transmitted to mammals.
While mammalian innate immune responses to arboviruses are well studied, less is known about how mammalian cells respond to viruses that are restricted to infect only invertebrates.
Here we demonstrate that IIV-6, a DNA virus of the family Iridoviridae, is able to induce a type I interferon-dependent antiviral immune response in mammalian cells.
Although IIV-6 is a DNA virus, we demonstrate that the immune response activated during IIV-6 infection is mediated by the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) pathway, and not the canonical DNA sensing pathway via cGAS/STING. We further show that RNA polymerase III is required for maximal IFN-β secretion, suggesting that viral DNA is transcribed by this enzyme into an RNA species capable of activating the RLR pathway.
Finally, we demonstrate that the RLR-driven mammalian innate immune response to IIV-6 is functionally capable of protecting cells from subsequent infection with the arboviruses Vesicular Stomatitis virus and Kunjin virus.
These results represent a novel example of an invertebrate DNA virus activating a canonically RNA sensing pathway in the mammalian innate immune response, which reduces viral load of ensuing arboviral infection.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25525875 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4272443 [
AVAILABLE ON 12/18/15]/pdf/ Apoptotic caspases prevent the induction of type I interferons by mitochondrial DNA. Cell ['The mechanism by which cells undergo death determines whether dying cells trigger inflammatory responses or remain immunologically silent.
Mitochondria play a central role in the induction of cell death, as well as in immune signaling pathways.
Here, we identify a mechanism by which mitochondria and downstream proapoptotic caspases regulate the activation of antiviral immunity.
In the absence of active caspases, mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization by Bax and Bak results in the expression of type I interferons (IFNs).
This induction is mediated by mitochondrial DNA-dependent activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and results in the establishment of a potent state of viral resistance.
Our results show that mitochondria have the capacity to simultaneously expose a cell-intrinsic inducer of the IFN response and to inactivate this response in a caspase-dependent manner.
This mechanism provides a dual control, which determines whether mitochondria initiate an immunologically silent or a proinflammatory type of cell death.'] 
9027324 Currently the full-text not available Transcriptional regulation of the human chromogranin
A gene by its 5' distal regulatory element: novel effects of orientation, structure, flanking sequences, and position on expression.
Molecular and cellular endocrinology [
"In previous studies of human chromogranin A (hCgA) gene expression, we had identified a 27 bp distal regulatory element (DRE) located between -576 and -550 bp that interacts with a CRE-containing promoter to enhance gene transcription specifically in neuroendocrine (NE) cells.
To characterize the DRE we have now mutated its various parts and assessed the effects on protein binding by electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) and hCgA transcription within BEN cells.
We found that the sequence TGACTAA, an AP-1 binding site that we refer to as DRE-AP-1, was necessary but not sufficient to produce the DRE's enhancer effect.
Moreover, while AP-1 (Jun/Fos) bound this site, binding was not correlated with transcriptional effects.
Protein binding by the DRE-AP-1 could be attenuated by mutations of its flanking sequences, and transcriptional enhancement by the DRE was dependent on its orientation and spatial relationship to the hCgA proximal promoter.
Mutation of the DRE-AP-1 to a consensus AP-1 did not produce greater transcriptional activity, even though it increased binding of nuclear factors.
Co-transfection with c-jun and/or c-fos expression plasmids showed that the DRE was unresponsive to the over-expressed AP-1 proteins.
Co-transfection with wild-type DRE oligonucleotides competitively inhibited DRE-mediated transcription, while co-transfection with mutant DRE oligonucleotides had a lesser effect.
Our studies indicate that transcriptional enhancement of hCgA by the DRE is dependent on a unique NE-specific DRE-binding factor, which we refer to as DBF, that specifically and directionally binds the DRE to assemble and synergize a functional transcription complex."] 
27230542 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4895045/pdf/ RPA and Rad51 constitute a cell intrinsic mechanism to protect the cytosol from self DNA. Nature communications ['Immune recognition of cytosolic DNA represents a central antiviral defence mechanism.
Within the host, short single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) continuously arises during the repair of DNA damage induced by endogenous and environmental genotoxic stress.
Here we show that short ssDNA traverses the nuclear membrane, but is drawn into the nucleus by binding to the DNA replication and repair factors RPA and Rad51.
Knockdown of RPA and Rad51 enhances cytosolic leakage of ssDNA resulting in cGAS-dependent type I IFN activation.
Mutations in the exonuclease TREX1 cause type
I IFN-dependent autoinflammation and autoimmunity.
We demonstrate that TREX1 is anchored within the outer nuclear membrane to ensure immediate degradation of ssDNA leaking into the cytosol.
In TREX1-deficient fibroblasts, accumulating ssDNA causes exhaustion of RPA and Rad51 resulting in replication stress and activation of p53 and type I IFN.
Thus, the ssDNA-binding capacity of RPA and Rad51 constitutes a cell intrinsic mechanism to protect the cytosol from self DNA.'] 
23157743 Currently the full-text not available [Pulmonary neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia and tumorlets in bronchiectasis: a clinicopathologic study of 22 cases with review of literature].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology [StringElement('To study the clinical and pathological features of pulmonary neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia and tumorlets with bronchiectasis.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('Both the clinicopathologic changes and immunohistochemical findings were examined with microscopy and EnVision method in 22 cases of pulmonary neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia and tumorlets.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('The average age of the 22 patients was 53 years, with a male to female ratio of 9:13.
On macroscopic examination the lungs showed bronchiectasis; one case was accompanied by gray-white, soft nodules (diameter < 5 mm).
Microscopy of the HE sections showed the basic pathologic change was bronchiectasis, accompanied by neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia and tumorlet formation in the pulmonary parenchyma surrounding the bronchioles, presenting as single nodule (10 patients), or multifocal nodules (12 patients), with average size of 1.6 mm in diameter.
No tumor cells were identified in the lymph nodes.
Sixteen of 22 patients were disease-free after an average follow-up period of 58 months (17 - 117 months); one patient died suddenly after surgery; and five were loss of follow up.
Immunohistologically, the tumor cells were positive for CgA (18/18), Syn (16/16), AE1/AE3 (16/16) , TTF-1 (14/15), and CD56 (14/14), and Ki-67 index was < 2% in 12 cases.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Immunohistological staining for CgA, Syn, CD56, TTF-1 and AE1/AE3 can confirm the diagnosis.
Early detection, pulmonary resection and follow-up help prevent the progression of these diseases.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
27895165 Currently the full-text not available Rats with a missense mutation in Atm display neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration subsequent to accumulation of cytosolic DNA following unrepaired DNA damage.
Journal of leukocyte biology [StringElement('Mutations in the ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T)-mutated (ATM) gene give rise to the human genetic disorder A-T, characterized by immunodeficiency, cancer predisposition, and neurodegeneration.
Whereas a series of animal models recapitulate much of the A-T phenotype, they fail to present with ataxia or neurodegeneration.
We describe here the generation of an Atm missense mutant [amino acid change of leucine (L) to proline (P) at position 2262 (L2262P)] rat by intracytoplasmic injection (ICSI) of mutant sperm into oocytes.
Atm-mutant rats (Atm(L2262P/L2262P)) expressed low levels of ATM protein, suggesting a destabilizing effect of the mutation, and had a significantly reduced lifespan compared with Atm(+/+)
Whereas these rats did not show cerebellar atrophy, they succumbed to hind-limb paralysis (45%), and the remainder developed tumors.
Closer examination revealed the presence of both dsDNA and ssDNA in the cytoplasm of cells in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord of Atm(L2262P/L2262P) rats.
Significantly increased levels of IFN-β and IL-1β in all 3 tissues were indicative of DNA damage induction of the type 1 IFN response.
This was further supported by NF-κB activation, as evidenced by p65 phosphorylation (P65) and translocation to the nucleus in the spinal cord and parahippocampus.
Other evidence of neuroinflammation in the brain and spinal cord was the loss of motor neurons and the presence of increased activation of microglia.
These data provide support for a proinflammatory phenotype that is manifested in the Atm mutant rat as hind-limb paralysis.
This mutant represents a useful model to investigate the importance of neuroinflammation in A-T .'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
19108733 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2631592/pdf/
Histone H1x is highly expressed in human neuroendocrine cells and tumours.
BMC cancer [StringElement('Histone H1x is a ubiquitously expressed member of the H1 histone family.
H1 histones, also called linker histones, stabilize compact, higher order structures of chromatin.
In addition to their role as structural proteins, they actively regulate gene expression and participate in chromatin-based processes like DNA replication and repair.
The epigenetic contribution of H1 histones to these mechanisms makes it conceivable that they also take part in malignant transformation.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label'
: 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Based on results of a Blast data base search which revealed an accumulation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of H1x in libraries from neuroendocrine tumours (NETs), we evaluated the expression of H1x in NETs from lung and the gastrointestinal tract using immunohistochemisty.
Relative protein and mRNA levels of H1x were analysed by Western blot analysis and quantitative real-time RT-PCR, respectively.
Since several reports describe a change of the expression level of the replacement subtype H1.0 during tumourigenesis, the analysis of this subtype was included in this study.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('We found an increased expression of H1x but not of H1.0 in NET tissues in comparison to corresponding normal tissues.
Even though the analysed NETs were heterogenous regarding their grade of malignancy, all except one showed a considerably higher protein amount of H1x compared with corresponding non-neoplastic tissue.
Furthermore, double-labelling of H1x and chromogranin A in sections of pancreas and
small intestine revealed that H1x is highly expressed in neuroendocrine cells of these tissues.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We conclude that the high expression of histone H1x in NETs is probably due to the abundance of this protein in the cells from which these tumours originate.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
22800531 Currently the full-text not available [Concurrent medullary and papillary thyroid carcinoma: report of a case].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology 
24077100 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4142317/pdf/ Cell intrinsic immunity spreads to bystander cells via the intercellular transfer of cGAMP. Nature ["The innate immune defence of multicellular organisms against microbial pathogens requires cellular collaboration.
Information exchange allowing immune cells to collaborate is generally attributed to soluble protein factors secreted by pathogen-sensing cells.
Cytokines, such as type I interferons (IFNs), serve to alert non-infected cells to the possibility of pathogen challenge.
Moreover, in conjunction with chemokines they can instruct specialized immune cells to contain and eradicate microbial infection.
Several receptors and signalling pathways exist that couple pathogen sensing to the induction of cytokines, whereas cytosolic recognition of nucleic acids seems to be exquisitely important for the activation of type I IFNs, master regulators of antiviral immunity.
Cytosolic DNA is sensed by the receptor cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS), which catalyses the synthesis of the second messenger cGAMP(2'-5').
This molecule in turn activates the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident receptor STING, thereby inducing an antiviral state and the secretion of type I IFNs.
Here we find in murine and human cells that cGAS-synthesized cGAMP(2'-5') is transferred from producing cells to neighbouring cells through gap junctions, where it promotes STING activation and thus antiviral immunity independently of type I IFN signalling.
In line with the limited cargo specificity of connexins, the proteins that assemble gap junction channels, most connexins tested were able to confer this bystander immunity, thus indicating a broad physiological relevance of this local immune collaboration.
Collectively, these observations identify cGAS-triggered cGAMP(2'-5') transfer as a novel host strategy that serves to rapidly convey antiviral immunity in a transcription-independent, horizontal manner."] 
25774715 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4406811/pdf/
The transcription factor IRF1 and guanylate-binding proteins target activation of the AIM2 inflammasome by Francisella infection.
Nature immunology ['Inflammasomes are critical for mounting host defense against pathogens.
The molecular mechanisms that control activation of the AIM2 inflammasome in response to different cytosolic pathogens remain unclear.
Here we found that the transcription factor IRF1 was required for activation of the AIM2 inflammasome during infection with the Francisella tularensis subspecies novicida (F. novicida), whereas engagement of the AIM2 inflammasome by mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV) or transfected double-stranded DNA did not require IRF1.
Infection of F. novicida detected by the DNA sensor cGAS and its adaptor STING induced type I interferon-dependent expression of IRF1, which drove the expression of guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs); this led to intracellular killing of bacteria and DNA release.
Our results reveal a specific requirement for IRF1 and GBPs in the liberation of DNA for sensing by AIM2 depending on the pathogen encountered by the cell.'] 
20043075 Currently the full-text not available An 8-gene signature, including methylated and down-regulated glutathione peroxidase 3, of gastric cancer.
International journal of oncology ['We have identified an 8-gene signature with significant expression differences between gastric cancer and normal gastric tissues.
This 8-gene set can predict the normal and cancer status of gastric tissues with more than 96% accuracy in a totally independent microarray dataset.
The 8 genes are composed of down-regulated KLF4, GPX3, SST and LIPF, together with up-regulated SERPINH1, THY1 and INHBA in gastric cancer.
To corroborate the differential gene expression pattern, we chose GPX3 and examined its expression pattern in detail.
A comparison of GPX3 expression pattern shows a broader down-regulated pattern in multiple types of cancers, including cervical, thyroid, head and neck, lung cancers and melanoma than in healthy controls.
An immuno-histostaining analysis in tissue microarrays confirms GPX3 down-regulation in gastric cancer.
Mechanism-wise GPX3 down-regulation in gastric cancer is due to promoter hypermethylation.
Collectively, these results show a correct identification of 8 genes as gastric cancer biomarkers.'] 
22088379 Currently the full-text not available [Thyroid metastatic renal clear cell carcinoma: report of a case].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology 
26972769 Currently the full-text not available Viral evasion of DNA-stimulated innate immune responses.
Cellular & molecular immunology [StringElement('Cellular sensing of virus-derived nucleic acids is essential for early defenses against virus infections.
In recent years, the discovery of DNA sensing proteins, including cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and gamma-interferon-inducible protein (IFI16), has led to understanding of how cells evoke strong innate immune responses against incoming pathogens carrying DNA genomes.
The signaling stimulated by DNA sensors depends on the adaptor protein STING (stimulator of interferon genes), to enable expression of antiviral proteins, including type I interferon.
To facilitate efficient infections, viruses have evolved a wide range of evasion strategies, targeting host DNA sensors, adaptor proteins and transcription factors.
In this review, the current literature on virus-induced activation of the STING pathway is presented and we discuss recently identified viral evasion mechanisms targeting different steps in this antiviral pathway.
Cellular & Molecular Immunology advance online publication, 19 March 2016; doi:10.1038/cmi.2016.06; published online 14 March 2016.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
22160160 Currently the full-text not available High KIT and PDGFRA are associated with shorter patients survival in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, but mutations are a rare event.
Journal of cancer research and clinical oncology [StringElement('(1)
To test whether in genomewide expression profiling differentially expressed genes were also distinct on the protein level including KIT and PDGFRA (2) to correlate the expression with clinicopathological parameters (3) to identify activating mutations that might be eligible for tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy by mutational analysis of tumors with high expression.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP NETs) from 119 patients were analyzed for protein expression of ten biomarkers.
Mutational analysis of KIT (exon 9, 13, 11 and 17) and PDGFRA (exons 12 and 18) was performed on those samples that showed high protein expression.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('High KIT expression was observed in 13% of all specimens, PDGFRA in 33%, CK19 in 26%, CK7 in 2%, CK20 in 5%, S100 in 6%, CD56 in 25%, Chromogranin in 55%, and Synapthophysin in 80%.
High expression of KIT and PDGFRA was significantly correlated with shorter disease-specific survival (P = 0.003, P = 0.018, respectively).
In multivariate analysis expression of PDGFRA, radicality of surgical treatment and WHO grading influenced disease-specific 10-year survival independently (P = 0.032, P = 0.001 and P = 0.008, respectively).
Mutational analysis of highly expressed specimens (n = 51) reveals a novel mutation of KIT in exon 11 (K558N_V559insP) in a well-differentiated metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('High expression of KIT and PDGFRA was significantly correlated with shorter patients survival and could serve as prognostic marker.
Mutations of the KIT gene might open new avenues for tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy in a subset of patients with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26939583 Currently the full-text not available Mitochondrial DNA sensing by STING signaling participates in inflammation, cancer and beyond.
International journal of cancer ['Recent studies have revealed the diverse pathophysiological functions of mitochondria beyond traditional energetic metabolism in cells.
Mitochondria-released damage-associated molecular patterns, particularly mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA), play a central role in host immune defenses against foreign pathogens.
Newly discovered cGAS-STING signaling is responsible for microbial DNA recognition, and potentially participates in mitochondrial DNA sensing.
Inappropriate inflammatory signaling mediated by mtDNA is implicated in various human diseases, especially infectious/inflammatory disease and cancer.
In addition, mtDNA horizontal transfer between tumor cells and surrounding somatic cells has been recently observed and been associated with tumorigenesis and cancer progression.
In this review, we will summarize the molecular signaling of mtDNA recognition (especially STING signaling), and discuss the underlying mechanism by which mtDNA transfer triggers cancer progression in human.
Besides, we will highlight the central role of mtDNA in host immunity, with particular emphasis on mtDNA-induced NETs (neutrophil extracellular traps) formation, apoptosis and autophagy.'] 
7770635 Currently the full-text not available Recombinant human chromogranin A: expression, purification and characterization of the N-terminal derived peptides.
Regulatory peptides ['Chromogranin A (CGA) is an ubiquitous 48 kDa secretory protein stored and released from most endocrine cells and is present in nanomolar concentration in the human vascular system.
Recent data suggest that CGA may be the precursor of several peptides with a defined biological activity.
The present report describes the expression of human CGA in Escherichia coli using the pET3a vector system, the purification and characterization of the recombinant protein and the production of antibody against the expressed protein.
The expressed CGA was purified by a multi-step protocol including heat treatment, gel filtration and high performance-anion exchange chromatography and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.
Two major forms of recombinant human CGA (rhCGA) were purified from the bacterial cytosol: a 70 kDa form which corresponded to the native full-length CGA and a major proteolytic 63 kDa product recognized by antibodies raised against the 70 kDa rhCGA or to synthetic peptides localized in the N-terminal part of the bovine CGA sequence.
This E. coli expression system provides a method for producing a suitable protein which will permit the identification of CGA-derived peptides with defined biological function in human.
Fragments containing the N-terminal domain were generated by acidic cleavage of the two forms of rhCGA.
A two-step purification using high-performance reverse-phase chromatography yielded 6 peptide bands ranging in apparent molecular mass from 7 to 18 kDa.
Four components (molecular mass range 12-18 kDa) were immunostained with antibodies directed against synthetic sequences of bovine vasostatin II (bCGA1-113) while the two others (molecular mass range 7-8 kDa) were immunostained only with antibodies directed against vasostatin I (bCGA1-76).
From protein staining the ratio vasostatins II/I was 10:1.
The vasoinhibitory activity of this preparation was examined on isolated human saphenous vein segments.
An inhibitory effect was obtained in paired vessel segments from 7 patients undergoing surgery for coronary artery bypass, however with low potency for supression of the endothelin-1 evoked sustained tension in these vessels.'] 
7588318 Currently the full-text not available Identification and characterization of a neuroendocrine-specific 5'-regulatory region of the human chromogranin
A gene.
Endocrinology [
"Chromogranin A (CgA) expression is specific to cells of endocrine and neuroendocrine (NE) tissues.
Our transfection studies with CgA have identified two DNA regions 5' of the transcription start site that regulate CgA gene transcription: a distal regulatory region (DRR) located between -726 and -455, and a proximal regulatory region (PRR) between -60 and -26.
In studies of the DRR using four human NE and six human non-NE cell lines, we demonstrated enhanced transcription of DRR-containing CgA-GH plasmids by the NE cells as a group compared to the non-NE cells.
DNase
I footprinting identified a protected area in the DRR from -570 to -555 base pairs (bp) composed of the sequence TAATGATGACTAAACA. Centered in this sequence is the simian virus 40 version of the activator protein-1-binding site, TGACTAA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) with an oligonucleotide containing the 27 bp of the DRR between -576 and -550, which we refer to as the distal regulatory element (DRE), produced a specific complex with the NE BEN and non-NE COS-1 cell nuclear extracts.
The addition of c-Jun and c-Fos antibodies produced strong supershifts of the complex generated by COS-1 extract, but very weak supershifts of the complex formed by BEN extract.
These EMSA studies suggest that NE cells such as BEN contain unique nuclear factors distinguishable from activator protein-1 that interact with the DRE.
The enhancer effect of the 271-bp DRR could be replaced by the 27-bp DRE in both CgA and calcitonin promoter constructs in BEN cells.
Replacement of the DRR with the DRE resulted in a further increase in expression from these plasmids, suggesting the presence of suppressor sequences in the DRR.
In transfection studies of the PRR, deletion of its cAMP response element (CRE) dramatically lowered transcription.
In addition to demonstrating that its CRE can bind CRE-binding protein, EMSAs with the PRR demonstrated that an intervening sequence between the CRE and the TATA box formed a complex with BEN cell nuclear extract.
Our studies demonstrate that both the PRR and DRR are important for high level transcription of the CgA gene in NE cells.
The presence of both distal and proximal 5'-regulatory regions in the human CgA gene indicates a complex mechanism of transcriptional regulation.
Although the PRR is important for the formation of a functional transcription complex at the TATA region, the DRR is important for the enhancement of CgA gene expression in NE cells."] 
16260276 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical expressions of cytokeratins, mucin core proteins, p53, and neuroendocrine cell markers in epithelial neoplasm of appendix.
Human pathology ['Epithelial neoplasms of appendix are infrequent, and their pathological features are not fully characterized.
We collected 33 cases of appendiceal tumors and examined immunohistochemically the expression of cytokeratins (CK, CK7, and CK20), mucin core protein (MUC1, MUC2, MUC5AC, and MUC6), E-cadherin, chromogranin A, and p53 protein.
Gene analysis of TP53 was also conducted on exons 5 to 8.
Clinically, mucinous tumors were predominant in females.
Immunohistochemically, all the tumors expressed CK20, whereas CK7 was positive in one third of the cases.
Similarly, MUC2 was expressed in all the tumors, whereas MUC1 and MUC5AC were detected in about a half of the cases.
Although chromogranin A-positive cells are generally sparse in normal appendix, they were more common in mucinous tumors than in nonmucinous tumors.
Contrary to the previous data reported (Mod Pathol 2002;15:599-605), mucinous carcinoma exhibited a higher frequency of p53-positive cells (mean 29%) compared with mucinous adenoma (2.8%) (P < .001), whereas nonmucinous tumors showed high levels of p53-positive cells to similar extent (51%-67%) in both adenoma and carcinoma.
The high expression of p53 protein coincided with the presence of mutations in multiple sites of TP53 gene in mucinous tumors.
This is the first report that characterized the immunophenotypic profile of appendiceal epithelial neoplasms with an emphasis of a higher frequency of p53 positivity in mucinous carcinoma cases compared with mucinous adenoma in the appendix.'] 
21220053 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3065958/pdf/ Expression analysis of the Islet-1 gene in the developing and adult gastrointestinal tract.
Gene expression patterns : GEP ['LIM-homeodomain genes encode a family of proteins defined by the cysteine-rich protein/protein interacting (Lin-11, Isl-1, and Mec-3) LIM domain and a highly conserved DNA-binding domain.
Studies in several organisms have shown that these transcriptional regulators control multiple aspects of embryonic development and are responsible for the pathogenesis of several human diseases.
Here we report the expression of Islet-1 (Isl-1) in the gastrointestinal epithelium in developing and adult mice.
At embryonic day (E) 9.5-10.5, Isl-1 expression was first detected in the ventral gastric mesenchyme, and expression in the dorsal mesenchyme initiated a few days later.
Isl-1 expression was first observed in the gastric epithelium at E13.5 and at E14.5 was restricted to the posterior half of the stomach.
In the mature stomach, Isl-1 expression was detected only in subsets of enteroendocrine cells.
Furthermore, Isl-1 expression in the intestinal epithelium was first detected at E15.5 and was restricted to subpopulations of enteroendocrine cells in adult mice.
These expression analyses suggest that Isl-1 might have an early broad role in stomach and intestinal cells and a secondary role in terminal differentiation and/or maintenance of mature enteroendocrine subtypes in the gastrointestinal epithelium.'] 
1405495 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II mRNAs in the pituitary and adrenal glands of various mammals.
Regulation of chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II mRNA levels by estrogen.
Laboratory investigation; a journal of technical methods and pathology [StringElement('The chromogranin/secretogranin (Cg/Sg) acidic proteins are widely distributed in vertebrate species.
They are thought to play a role in hormone packaging within secretory granules, in hormone secretion, and serve as prohormones for various proteolytic cleavage products.
The genes for most members of the Cg/Sg family have been cloned, so hybridization analysis can be used to analyze the distribution and regulation of Cg/Sg mRNAs in various vertebrate species.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('The method of in situ hybridization was used to localize chromogranin A, chromogranin B, and secretogranin II in adrenal and pituitary tissues from laboratory animals and from humans in order to analyze the distribution of various Cg/Sg mRNAs in these tissues.
To gain some insight into the regulation and possible functions of specific Cg/Sg members, female rats were ovariectomized for different periods with and without estrogen replacement and the pituitaries were subsequently analyzed by in situ hybridization and Northern hybridization analyses.
Combined ISH and immunohistochemistry were used to localize the specific cell types in normal rat pituitary that expressed the mRNA for chromogranin A, chromogranin B, and secretogranin II.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN'}), StringElement('All three Cg/Sg mRNAs were detected in pituitary and adrenal tissues of rats, mice, dogs, monkeys, and humans.
Combined in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry using rat pituitary revealed that the glycoprotein hormone-secreting cells expressed all three Cg/Sg mRNAs in approximately equal amounts.
Ovariectomy followed by estrogen replacement resulted in decreased levels of CgA and SgII mRNAs.
In contrast, the level of CgB mRNA, that was not changed by ovariectomy, was increased after estrogen treatment, probably secondary to prolactin cell hyperplasia.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The three principal Cg/Sg mRNAs are present in the adrenal and pituitary of various vertebrates.
Estrogen plays a significant role in regulating the mRNA levels of different Cgs/Sgs suggesting functional and regulatory differences in Cg/Sg proteins.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
26915459 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4856760 [AVAILABLE ON 05/01/17]/pdf/ TRIM9 short isoform preferentially promotes DNA and RNA virus-induced production of type I interferon by recruiting GSK3β to TBK1.
Cell research ['Type I interferon (IFN) is an important component of antiviral innate immune signaling mediated by viral DNA and RNA recognition by the DNA sensor cGAS and RNA sensors RIG-I and MDA5.
Activation of these DNA and RNA sensors leads to the recruitment of STING and MAVS, respectively, and converges on TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) signaling for subsequent phosphorylation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3).
However, the mechanisms that control TBK1 activation are still poorly defined.
Here, we identify tripartite motif 9 short isoform (TRIM9s) as a positive regulator in type I IFN signaling.
Upon viral infection, TRIM9s undergoes Lys-63-linked auto-polyubiquitination and serves as a platform to bridge GSK3β to TBK1, leading to the activation of IRF3 signaling.
Interestingly, we found that TRIM9s selectively inhibits the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, but enhances the expression of type I IFNs as well as IFN-stimulated genes, in response to viral infection.
Our findings reveal novel dual functions of TRIM9s in antiviral immunity, which serve to balance pro-inflammatory response and production of type I IFNs.'] 
17052998 Currently the full-text not available The aryl hydrocarbon receptor inhibits prostate carcinogenesis in TRAMP mice.
Carcinogenesis ['The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcription factor that mediates the inhibitory effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on prostate growth and also modulates normal prostate development.
This is evidenced by AhR null mice (Ahr-/-) having smaller dorsolateral and anterior prostates, even though all prostate lobes remain histologically normal.
To test the hypothesis that loss of the AhR increases the rate of prostate carcinogenesis, the incidence of macroscopic prostate tumors was determined in Ahr+/+, Ahr+/- and Ahr-/- C57BL/6J transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice at 35, 70, 105, 140, 175 and 210 days of age.
From 140 days, prostate tumor incidence was greater in Ahr-/- (60%) and Ahr+/- (43%) mice than in Ahr+/+ mice (16%).
Allele quantification did not indicate a loss of the wild-type Ahr allele in heterozygous TRAMP tumors, suggesting that tumor formation in these mice was not due to a loss of Ahr heterozygosity.
Prostatic SV40 large T antigen mRNA expression and protein localization were comparable in TRAMP mice of each Ahr genotype.
Prostates from all mice of each Ahr genotype were histologically indistinguishable, exhibiting diffuse epithelial hyperplasia by 105 days of age.
mRNA expression and protein localization for molecular markers of neuroendocrine differentiation, including chromogranin A and neuropilin-1, were elevated in prostate tumors compared to tumor-free ventral prostates, regardless of Ahr genotype or age.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that the Ahr inhibits prostate carcinogenesis in C57BL/6J TRAMP mice by interfering with neuroendocrine differentiation.'] 
12670050 Currently the full-text not available Atypical neuronal-glial tumors of cerebral hemispheres in adults with PNET-like component: clinicopathological features of 5 cases.
Clinical neuropathology ['We investigated 5 cases with brain tumors composed ofneuronal and astrocytic differentiated tumor cells occurring in the cerebral hemispheres of adults.
Patients ranged from 33 - 69 years of age, 3 females and 2 males.
Radiologically, contrast enhancement was demonstrated in these tumors.
All tumors were surgically resected following radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Four patients have been free of recurrence for 2-5 years.
One recurred 15 years after the operation.
Histologically, tumor cells were mainly composed of round or oval nucleate cells with scant cytoplasm and compactly arranged with neurocytic features.
Immunohistochemically, some tumor cells were immunoreactive for synaptophysin, neurofilament, beta-tubulin, chromogranin A, GFAP and vimentin.
There were little immunoreactive cells for myelin basic protein and epithelial membrane antigen.
Ultrastructurally, tumor cells were variably differentiated as follows: undifferentiated cells having prominent nuclei and scanty cytoplasm with inconspicuous organelles; neuronal cells consisting of neurosecretory granules or vesicles and abortive synapses, and astrocytic cells with cytoplasmic intermediate filaments.
The Ki-67 labeling index ranged from 4.5 - 9.8%.
Allelic loss of chromosome Ip occurred in 2 cases (50%) and allelic loss of chromosome 19q occurred in 2 cases (50%) of 4 informative cases.
These tumors were characterized as neuronal and astrocytic differentiated tumors with primitive PNET-like component.
However, there was little oligodendrocytic or ependymal differentiation in these tumors.'] 
14960413 Currently the full-text not available Isolation of nuclei from label-retaining cells and measurement of their turnover rates in rat colon.
American journal of physiology.
Cell physiology ['We describe here a new technique for isolating nuclei from long-term label-retaining cells (LRCs), a subpopulation enriched with stem cells from colon, and for measuring their proliferation rates in vivo.
A double-label approach was developed, combining the use of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and (2)H(2)O. Male Fisher 344 rats were administered BrdU in drinking water continuously for 2-8 wk.
BrdU was then discontinued (BrdU washout), and animals (n = 33) were switched to (2)H(2)O in drinking water and killed after 2, 4, and 8 wk.
Nuclei from BrdU-positive cells
(LRCs) were collected by flow cytometry.
The percentages of LRCs were 7 and 3.8% after 4 and 8 wk of BrdU washout, respectively.
Turnover rates of LRCs were measured on the basis of deuterium incorporation from (2)H(2)O into DNA of LRC nuclei, as determined by mass spectrometry.
The proliferation rate of the LRCs collected was 0.33-0.90% per day (half-life of 77-210 days).
Significant contamination from other potentially long-lived colon cells was excluded.
In conclusion, this double-labeling method allows both physical isolation of nuclei from colon epithelial LRCs and measurement of their in vivo proliferation rates.
Use of this approach may allow better understanding of mechanisms by which agents induce or protect against colon carcinogenesis.'] 
11490236 Currently the full-text not available The expression of neuropeptides in hyperplastic and malignant prostate tissue and its possible clinical implications.
The Journal of urology [StringElement('We characterized the incidence and pattern of distribution of neuroendocrine differentiated tumor cells in prostatic hyperplastic and carcinomatous tissue, correlated neuroendocrine differentiation with prostate specific antigen (PSA) and assessed whether neuroendocrine cells have value as an independent indicator of poor prognosis in patients with prostate carcinoma.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('We immunohistochemically evaluated hyperplastic and carcinomatous prostate specimens for chromogranin A, neuron specific enolase and serotonin expressing tumor cells.
The expression of various markers in cells was analyzed and correlated with tumor DNA ploidy, disease grade and stage, PSA and clinical course in patients with prostate cancer.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIALS AND METHODS'}), StringElement('Enrolled in our study were 31 patients with hyperplastic prostate tissue and 30 with prostatic carcinoma.
Followup in cancer cases was 1 to 9 years (mean 3.7).
During followup 9 patients (30%) died of cancer.
We noted DNA content aneuploidy in 5 cases (16.7%) of prostate carcinoma.
Chromogranin A, neuron specific enolase and serotonin were expressed in 80%, 43% and 77% of cases of prostate carcinoma and in 29%, 10% and 36% of hyperplastic tissue, respectively.
Larger prostates had no higher content of various neuroendocrine cells than smaller prostates.
There was higher expression of neuropeptides in carcinomatous than in hyperplastic tissue.
Of the 3 peptides chromogranin A was significantly related to all parameters, including Gleason score, tumor stage, PSA and patient survival.
In addition to PSA, neuron specific enolase was also closely associated with other clinicopathological parameters.
Serotonin was significantly related to patient survival only but we noted no correlation with Gleason score, tumor stage or PSA.
In regard to factors predictive of patient prognosis expression of the 3 neuropeptides in tumor cells, Gleason score, tumor stage and PSA were closely related to patient survival in this study', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The growth of hyperplastic prostate tissue is related to neuroendocrine cell activity.
The chromogranin
A marker has the highest expression in prostate cancer.
Neuroendocrine cells may represent an independent indicator of poor prognosis in patients with prostate carcinoma.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
12435394 Currently the full-text not available Sorting of an exocrine secretory protein to the regulated secretory pathway in endocrine cells.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Regulated secretory proteins are stored in secretory granules.
While the sorting and storage process appears similar in endocrine and exocrine cells, the extent of overlap of sorting between endocrine and exocrine cell types is not clear.
It is predicted that exocrine regulated secretory proteins that are stored with high efficiency in exocrine granules would also be stored efficiently in endocrine granules.
To test this hypothesis, parotid secretory protein (PSP), which is stored efficiently in parotid acinar cells, was expressed in the endocrine cell lines GH4C1 and PC12.
PSP undergoes stimulated secretion in both cell types.
Secretion is similar to that of the endocrine regulated secretory protein chromogranin A but distinct from secreted alkaline phosphatase, a marker for the constitutive secretory pathway in endocrine cells.
Subcellular fractionation of GH4C1 cells revealed that PSP co-fractionates with chromogranin A but not with secreted alkaline phosphatase.'] 
20036908 Currently the full-text not available Molecular markers for prostatic cancer.
Frontiers in bioscience (Elite edition)
['Prostate cancer (caP) is a major public health problem.
Many groups have attempted to identify prognostic risk factors to early detect caP and to identify who will need active treatment.
Since the introduction of prostate specific antigen (PSA), diagnosis of caP has increased even as mortality for prostatic cancer has declined.
Using current recommended guidelines, the PSA test suffers from both of limited specificity and sensitivity.
With the aim to improve early detection of prostatic cancer the volume adjusted PSA, PSA isoforms and PSA kinetics have been investigated.
Recently, technological advances in molecular assays have led to the discovery of new markers with high specificity.
Further, proteomic array profiling and DNA methylation assays could provide for more accurate diagnosis and prognosis.
Current evidence suggests that no single marker is likely to achieve the desired level of diagnostic and prognostic accuracy: future research should focus on validation of already existing biomarkers and the discovery of new markers to identify men with aggressive prostate cancer and to predict outcomes after therapies.'] 
25627810 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4657478/pdf/ DNA sensors are expressed in astrocytes and microglia in vitro and are upregulated during gliosis in neurodegenerative disease.
Glia ['The detection of nucleic acids by the innate immune system is an essential host response during viral infection.
In recent years, a number of immune sensors capable of recognizing cytosolic DNA have been identified and include the PYHIN family members AIM2, IFI16, and p204 as well as the enzyme, cGAS. Activation of these receptors leads to the induction of antiviral genes including Type-1 interferons and chemokines such as CCL5.
We have carried out extensive expression profiling of these DNA sensors and other members of the PYHIN family in highly purified primary astrocytes and microglia and have demonstrated that both cell types express the majority of these proteins at the mRNA level.
In microglia, several family members are highly upregulated in response to IFN-β treatment while both cell types induce robust proinflammatory and antiviral cytokine production (e.g., IL-6, CCL5, IFN-β) in the presence of immune stimulatory DNA and RNA.
The production of IL-6 is partially dependent on the interferon receptor as is IFN-β itself.
Furthermore, we have found that p204 and AIM2 are upregulated in a Type I IFN dependent fashion in vivo, in a murine model of chronic neurodegeneration.
Given the propensity of inflammatory responses to cause neuronal damage, increased expression and activation of these receptors, not only during viral infection but also during sterile inflammatory responses, has the potential to exacerbate existing neuroinflammation leading to further damage and impaired neurogenesis.'] 
12438089 Currently the full-text not available Influence of the Anx7 (+/-) knockout mutation and fasting stress on the genomics of the mouse adrenal gland.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences ['The Anx7 gene codes for a Ca(2+)/GTPase with calcium channel and membrane fusion properties that has been proposed to regulate exocytotic secretion in chromaffin and other cell types.
We have previously reported that the homozygous Anx7 (+/-) knockout mouse has an embryonically lethal phenotype.
However, the viable heterozygous Anx7 (+/-) mouse displays a complex phenotype that includes adrenal gland hypertrophy, chromaffin cell hyperplasia, and defective IP(3) receptor (IP(3)R) expression.
To search for a molecular basis for this phenotype, we have used cDNA microarray technology and have challenged control and mutant mice with fed or fasting conditions.
We report that in the absence of the Anx7/IP(3)R signaling system, the cells in the adrenal gland are unable to discriminate between the fed and fasted states, in vivo.
In control chromaffin cells, fasting is accompanied by an increased expression of structural genes for chromaffin cell contents, including chromogranin A and B, and DbetaH. There are also genes whose expression is specifically reduced.
However, the Anx7 (+/-) mutation results in sustained expression of these nutritionally sensitive genes.
We hypothesize that the calcium signaling defect due to the missing IP(3)R may be responsible for the global effects of the mutation on nutritionally sensitive genes.
We further hypothesize that the tonically elevated expression of chromogranin A, a reportedly master control "switch" for dense core granule formation, may contribute to the process driving glandular hypertrophy and chromaffin cell hyperplasia in the Anx7 (+/-) mutant mouse.'] 
7984507 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A(210-301) is the major form of pancreastatin-like material in human gut extracts and endocrine tumors.
Peptides ['A radioimmunoassay of human pancreastatin was developed using a rabbit antiserum that selectively recognized the C-terminal amidated end of the peptide, and it was used for the identification of the molecular forms of pancreastatin in human gut (stomach, duodenum, small intestine, colon) and endocrine tumor extracts (liver metastasis of a gastrinoma and a medullary carcinoma of thyroid, one nonsecreting pancreatic tumor, one recurrence of a gut carcinoid, one vipoma and one insulinoma).
In all gut extracts, a gel filtration chromatography revealed the presence of three peaks of pancreastatin-like immunoreactivity.
The predominant form eluted with an apparent molecular weight higher than that of pancreastatin.
This form was also predominant in the endocrine tumors analyzed, except in the insulinoma, where a lower molecular weight form predominated.
The high molecular form was further purified from a liver metastasis of a gastrinoma.
The pancreastatin-like immunoreactivity eluted in all the chromatographical systems (reverse-phase, ion exchange) as a single peak that was finally purified to homogeneity and sequenced.
The sequence of the first 29 N-terminal amino acids was obtained unambiguously and corresponded to the sequence 210-238 of chromogranin A. Considering the selectivity of the assay used for peptide identification, this major form was identified as the fragment 210-301 of chromogranin A. It is likely that the predominant form of pancreastatin in human gut extracts and noninsular tumors is a 92 amino acid peptide.'] 
7576943 Currently the full-text not available Retinoic acid and cAMP differentially regulate human chromogranin A promoter activity during differentiation of neuroblastoma cells.
European journal of cancer (Oxford, England : 1990) ["We report the first evidence that differential transcriptional regulation of human chromogranin A (CHGA) gene expression occurs during in vitro treatment of tumorigenic neuroblastoma (NB) cells with retinoic acid (5 microM) and/or dibutyryl-cAMP (1 mM).
The CHGA gene encodes a tissue specific protein restricted to cells of the diffuse neuroendocrine system, but also widely expressed among NB tumours.
We previously reported that CHGA as well as other neuroendocrine markers are modulated during NB differentiation in vitro.
To investigate, at the molecular level, the mechanisms leading to NB tumour cell differentiation during the treatment with biologically active compounds, we sequenced and functionally characterised 2169 bp of a genomic DNA clone encompassing the 5' flanking region of the human CHGA gene.
Computer-assisted analysis of the sequence revealed the presence of a cAMP responsive element at positions -56 to -49, and Sp1 binding sites at positions -181 to -176 and -216 to -210.
Two novel 9 bp motifs, located at position -462 to -454 and -91 to -83 of the CHGA promoter were identified in the regulatory regions of two other neuroendocrine genes encoding for tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y.
In addition, in the first 1000 bp of the untranslated 5' region, we found the presence of several putative DNA binding sites of bHLH molecules, a protein family regulating tissue specific differentiation.
Transient transfection experiments of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) deletion constructs, showed the presence of an active promoter within the first 455 bp upstream from the start site.
This region conferred tissue specific expression to a CAT reporter gene.
In addition, the transcriptional activity of this fragment was modulated during the induction of differentiation of NB cells treated by retinoic acid and/or dibutyryl-cAMP. These observations provide preliminary data regarding CHGA transcriptional regulation in NB cells, and indicate that retinoic acid and cAMP activate distinct, apparently competitive, transcriptional pathways during NB cell differentiation.
The molecular characterisation of the mechanisms regulating CHGA expression in tumour and normal neuroendocrine tissue could lead to the identification of novel molecules potentially relevant for future gene therapy of NB tumours."] 
3018587 Currently the full-text not available Bovine chromogranin
A sequence and distribution of its messenger RNA in endocrine tissues.
Nature ['Chromogranin A is contained in storage vesicles of chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla and released with catecholamines when the splanchnic nerve is stimulated.
Chromogranin A is similar to secretory protein I (SP-I), a major secreted protein of the parathyroid.
Chromogranin A/SP-I immunoreactivity is abundant in endocrine cells that secrete peptide hormones from storage vesicles.
Chromogranins may act in neuroendocrine secretion by binding intravesicular calcium.
Serum levels of chromogranin are raised in hypertension and endocrine neoplasia.
We report here the isolation and sequencing of a cDNA encoding bovine chromogranin A, providing the first complete primary structure of a chromogranin protein.
Chromogranin A is a highly acidic protein with an apparent relative molecular mass (Mr) of 75,000 on SDS-PAGE, but an actual Mr of 48,000.
Adrenal medulla, brain, pituitary and parathyroid are all sites of synthesis of chromogranin A. The primary structure of chromogranin A, and the presence of chromogranin mRNA in the parathyroid, indicate that chromogranin A and SP-I are identical.'] 
10803489 Currently the full-text not available Catecholamine storage vesicle protein expression in genetic hypertension.
Blood pressure ['Chromogranin A expression is heritable in humans, and both plasma chromogranin
A concentration and its releasable adrenal and sympathetic neuronal pools are augmented in established essential (hereditary) hypertension.
To evaluate chromogranin A further as a simpler or "intermediate phenotype" in the complex trait of hypertension, we studied chromogranin
A expression in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), a rodent model of essential hypertension.
Both plasma (p < 0.0001) and adrenal medullary (p = 0.003 to p < 0.0001)
chromogranin A were elevated in the SHR, even at the earliest stages (3-4 weeks of age).
In the adult adrenal gland, both chromogranin A (p=0.005) and norepinephrine (p=0.011) were increased in the SHR, while dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was diminished (p < 0.0001).
Chromogranin
A mRNA expression was also elevated in the SHR adrenal medulla (p = 0.017).
Differences in chromogranin A processing were not noted between SHR and Wistar Kyoto control (WKY) rats.
In an SHR x WKY genetic intercross, control of the adrenal chromogranin
A phenotype by a single major locus was suggested by comparison of phenotypic variance of the F2 vs F1 generations, and by bimodal frequency histogram (3:1 ratio), confirmed by maximum likelihood analysis (chi2 = 74.6, p < 0.000001) in the F2 generation.
However, microsatellite alleles at a surrogate locus (Ighe) 12.7 cM from chromogranin A (Chga), on rat chromosome 6, failed to co-segregate with blood pressure in an F2 generation (F = 0.06, p = 0.94).
In another rodent model of hereditary hypertension, the genetically hypertensive mouse (BPH/2), adrenal chromogranin A (p=0.018) and norepinephrine (p = 0.004) were actually diminished.
We conclude that over-expression of chromogranin A is a variable feature of mammalian genetic hypertension.
In one rodent model (the SHR), over-expression of chromogranin A is largely controlled by a single genetic locus, but the chromogranin A locus itself is not directly linked to determination of the blood pressure elevation of the SHR.'] 
12437575 Currently the full-text not available Antipsychotic drug treatment induces differential gene expression in the rat cortex.
Journal of neurochemistry ['Antipsychotic drug treatment is known to modulate gene expression in experimental animals.
In this study, candidate target genes for antipsychotic drug action were searched using microarrays after acute clozapine treatment (1, 6 and 24 h) in the rat prefrontal cortex.
Microarray data clustering with a self-organizing map algorithm revealed differential expression of genes involved in presynaptic function following acute clozapine treatment.
The differential expression of 35 genes most profoundly regulated in expression arrays was further examined using in situ hybridization following acute clozapine, and chronic clozapine and haloperidol treatments.
Acute administration of clozapine regulated the expression of chromogranin A, synaptotagmin V and calcineurin A mRNAs in the cortex.
Chronic clozapine treatment induced differential cortical expression of chromogranin A, son of sevenless (SoS) and Sec-1.
Chronic treatment with haloperidol regulated the mRNA expression of inhibitor of DNA-binding 2 (ID-2) and Rab-12.
Furthermore, the expression of visinin-like proteins-1, -2 and -3 was regulated by chronic drug treatments in various brain regions.
Our data suggest that acute and chronic treatments with haloperidol and clozapine modulate the expression of genes involved in synaptic function and in regulation of intracellular Ca2+ in cortex.'] 
23747010 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3808999/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP containing mixed phosphodiester linkages is an endogenous high-affinity ligand for STING. Molecular cell ["The presence of microbial or self DNA in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells is a danger signal detected by the DNA sensor cyclic-GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS), which catalyzes the production of cGAMP that in turn serves as a second messenger to activate innate immune responses.
Here we show that endogenous cGAMP in mammalian cells contains two distinct phosphodiester linkages, one between 2'-OH of GMP and 5'-phosphate of AMP, and the other between 3'-OH of AMP and 5'-phosphate of GMP.
This molecule, termed 2'3'-cGAMP, is unique in that it binds to the adaptor protein STING with a much greater affinity than cGAMP molecules containing other combinations of phosphodiester linkages.
The crystal structure of STING bound to 2'3'-cGAMP\xa0revealed the structural basis of this high-affinity\xa0binding and a ligand-induced conformational change in STING that may underlie its activation."] 
12131156 Currently the full-text not available Prevalence and prognostic significance of acinar cell differentiation in pancreatic endocrine tumors.
The American journal of surgical pathology ['We have noted that many histologically and immunohistochemically confirmed pancreatic endocrine tumors show immunophenotypic evidence of acinar cell differentiation, but the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown.
We performed this study to evaluate the prevalence and prognostic significance of exocrine differentiation by immunohistochemistry in pancreatic endocrine tumors that do not show morphologic features of acinar cell differentiation.
Routinely processed tissue sections from 87 pancreatic endocrine tumors were immunohistochemically stained with monoclonal antibodies against acinar (lipase, chymotrypsin, trypsin) and endocrine cell markers (chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, Leu-7) and for the proliferation-associated peptide Ki67.
The degree of staining with each marker was graded on a three-tier scale for acinar markers (grade 0,
<5%; grade 1, 5-10%; grade 2, 11-25%; and grade 3, >25%) and on a four-tier scale for endocrine markers (grade 0, <5%; grade 1, 5-25%; grade 2, 26-50%; grade 3, 51-75%; and grade 4, >75%), and the results were correlated with clinical outcome (mean follow-up 53 months).
Greater than 75% of the tumor cells stained for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and Leu-7 in 100%, 96%, 93%, and 27% of cases, respectively.
Overall, 66% of tumors stained positively for at least one acinar cell marker, 31% stained for at least two acinar cell markers, and 13% stained for all three acinar cell markers.
Forty-seven percent stained for lipase (23 grade 1, 11 grade 2, seven grade 3), 37% for trypsin (22 grade 1, three grade 2, seven grade 3), and 25% stained for chymotrypsin (13 grade 1, five grade 2, four grade 3).
No correlation was noted between the presence or extent of expression of any single or combination of acinar cell markers and clinical outcome.
However, higher tumor stage correlated with a poor clinical outcome (p = 0.002), and location in the tail of the pancreas was associated with a longer interval to tumor recurrence (p = 0.03).
The presence of synaptophysin (p = 0.03) and Leu-7 expression (p = 0.03) correlated significantly with less aggressive clinical behavior.
An association was observed between increased Ki67 labeling and poorer clinical outcome, but this was not statistically significant (p >0.05).
In conclusion, immunophenotypic evidence of acinar cell differentiation is common in pancreatic endocrine tumors, but this feature does not have any relevance to clinical prognosis.
However, in addition to tumor stage, location in the pancreatic tail and the immunohistochemical expression of synaptophysin and/or Leu-7 may be useful prognostic indicators in patients with these lesions.'] 
1779968 Currently the full-text not available
The bovine chromogranin A gene: structural basis for hormone regulation and generation of biologically active peptides.
Molecular endocrinology
(Baltimore, Md.) ['The structure of the gene encoding bovine chromogranin-A has been determined by characterization of two isolated genomic clones.
Chromogranin-A is encoded by eight exons, which organize the coding region into several distinct structural and functional domains.
Exons 1-5 represent the highly conserved signal peptide and N-terminal domain, which are separated into regions corresponding to the signal peptide, N-terminal sequence, disulfide-bonded loop, and remainder of the conserved N-terminal domain.
Exon 6 represents the variable domain and encodes a region that is identical to the novel chromogranin-A-derived peptide chromostatin.
Exon 7 encodes the biologically active peptide pancreastatin as well as most of the conserved C-terminal domain, with the remainder found on exon 8.
The mRNA sequence obtained from the gene contains five nucleotide differences from the consensus sequence of four reported bovine chromogranin-A cDNA clones.
Two of the differences in the gene result in two amino acid changes in the region encoded by exon 6.
The structural organization of the chromogranin-A gene resembles that of the chromogranin-B gene in the exons corresponding to the signal peptide, N-terminal sequence, disulfide loop, and C-terminal sequence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)'] 
17172015 Currently the full-text not available [Construction of an inducible and efficient expression-secretion shuttle vector of B. subtilis].
Wei sheng wu xue bao = Acta microbiologica Sinica ['A new shuttle vector pSB which could replicate in both Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis was constructed by fusing the E. coli plasmid pSP72 with the B. subtilis plasmid pUB18.
After the sacB promoter and signal peptide sequence of B. subtilis was inserted in the multiple cloning sites (MCS) of pSB, The recombinant plasmid was designated as pSBP.
The alpha-amylase gene terminator of Bacillus licheniformis was inserted at the other end of the MCS, resulting in expression-secretion plasmid pSBPT.
After a positive control gene degQ of Bacillus pumilus was then cloned into pSBPT, and the inducible and efficient expression-secretion shuttle vector pSBPTQ was thus constructed.
To identify the function and the necessary of sacB p. s., alpha-amylase terminator, and degQ in the expression of heterologous gene of pSBPT, the DNA fragment encoding for vasostatin I was cloned downstream of sacB p. s. of pSBP, pSBPT and pSBPTQ, and the resultant plasmid pSV, pSVT and pSVTQ were then transformed into B. subtilis strain DB1342.
The transformants were screened on LB plates containing 10 microg/mL kanamycin.
The positive transformants were separately grown on kanamycin containing 2 x MSR medium and sucrose was added to 2% final concentration for induction after 2h cultivation.
The culture supernatant was used to run SDS-PAGE and Western blot.
The results show that after induced by sucrose, very few recombinant Vasostatin I was expressed in DB1342(pSV), and recombinant Vasostatin I expressed in DB1342(pSVTQ) with the positive control gene degQ is more than in DB1342(pSVT) without degQ, suggesting that the Vasostatin I gene expression in pSVTQ was enhanced by degQ.
Comparing the recombinant Vasostatin
I in DB1342(pSVTQ) cells and its culture supernatant, the SDS-PAGE result show that most of the recombinant Vasostatin I was secreted into the culture supernatant and there is no Vasostatin in inclusion body, the secretion rate is about 90%.
The result of plasmid stability test show that pSBPTQ maintains at 83% in B. subtilis after 40 generations.'] 
16397272 Currently the full-text not available IFN-beta is a highly potent inhibitor of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor cell growth in vitro.
Cancer research ['IFN-alpha controls hormone secretion and symptoms in human gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) but it rarely induces a measurable tumor size reduction.
The effect of other type I IFNs, e.g., IFN-beta, has not been evaluated.
We compared the antitumor effects of IFN-alpha and IFN-beta in BON cells, a functioning human GEP-NET cell line.
As determined by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis and immunocytochemistry, BON cells expressed the active type I IFN receptor mRNA and protein (IFNAR-1 and IFNAR-2c subunits).
After 3 and 6 days of treatment, IFN-beta significantly inhibited BON cell growth in a time- and dose-dependent manner.
IC50 and maximal inhibitory effect on day 6 were 8 IU/mL and 98%, respectively.
In contrast, the effect of IFN-alpha resulted significantly in a less potent effect (IC50: 44 IU/mL, maximal inhibition: 26%).
IFN-alpha induced only cell cycle arrest, with an accumulation of the cells in S phase.
IFN-beta, apart from a more potent delay in S-G2-M phase transit of the cell cycle, also induced a strong stimulation of apoptosis, evaluated by flow cytometry (Annexin V and 7-AAD) and measurement of the DNA fragmentation.
Besides, only IFN-beta severely suppressed chromogranin
A levels in the medium from BON cells after 6 days of treatment.
In conclusion, IFN-beta is much more potent, compared with IFN-alpha, in its inhibitory effect on GEP-NET cell proliferation in vitro through the induction of apoptosis and cell cycle arrest.
Further studies are required to establish whether IFN-beta has comparable potent tumor growth inhibitory effects in vivo.'] 
2828116
Currently the full-text not available Primary structure of rat chromogranin A and distribution of its mRNA. FEBS letters ['The primary structure of rat chromogranin A has been deduced from a rat adrenal cDNA clone.
A comparison of rat and
bovine chromogranin A reveals similar features: clusters of polyglutamic acid, similar amino acid composition, position of seven of 10 pairs of basic amino acids, identical placement of the only two cysteine residues, a highly conserved N- and C-terminus, and a sequence homologous to porcine pancreastatin 1-49 [(1986) Nature 324, 476-478].
Unique features of rat chromogranin A are an eicosaglutamine sequence and two potential N-linked glycosylation sites.
Chromogranin A mRNA is detectable in adrenal medulla, anterior pituitary, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus, as well as tumor cell lines derived from pancreas, pituitary, and adrenal medulla.'] 
16160079 Currently the full-text not available Conservation of the Notch1 signaling pathway in gastrointestinal carcinoid cells.
American journal of physiology.
Gastrointestinal and liver physiology ['Gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoid cells secrete multiple neuroendocrine (NE) markers and hormones including 5-hydroxytryptamine and chromogranin A. We were interested in determining whether activation of the Notch1 signal transduction pathway in carcinoid cells could modulate production of NE markers and hormones.
Human pancreatic carcinoid cells (BON cells) were stably transduced with an estrogen-inducible Notch1 construct, creating BON-NIER cells.
In the present study, we found that Notch1 is not detectable in human GI carcinoid tumor cells.
The induction of Notch1 in human BON carcinoid cells led to high levels of functional Notch1, as measured by CBF-1 binding studies, resulting in activation of the Notch1 pathway.
Similar to its developmental role in the GI tract, Notch1 pathway activation led to an increase in hairy enhancer of split 1 (HES-1) protein and a concomitant silencing of human Notch1/HES-1/achaete-scute homolog 1.
Furthermore, Notch1 activation led to a significant reduction in NE markers.
Most interestingly, activation of the Notch1 pathway caused a significant reduction in 5-hydroxytryptamine, an important bioactive hormone in carcinoid syndrome.
In addition, persistent activation of the Notch1 pathway in BON cells led to a notable reduction in cellular proliferation.
These results demonstrate that the Notch1 pathway, which plays a critical role in the differentiation of enteroendocrine cells, is highly conserved in the gut.
Therefore, manipulation of the Notch1 signaling pathway may be useful for expanding the targets for therapeutic and palliative treatment of patients with carcinoid tumors.'] 
3044825 Currently the full-text not available
The molecular cloning of the chromogranin A-like precursor of beta-granin and pancreastatin from the endocrine pancreas.
FEBS letters ['The cDNA encoding the precursor form of the chromogranin A-related proteins, beta-granin and pancreastatin, was obtained by immune screening of rat insulinoma and pancreatic islet cDNA libraries.
The sequence was virtually identical to that of rat adrenal chromogranin A, suggesting that the different molecular forms of chromogranin
A immunoreactivity found in adrenal medulla and endocrine pancreas are related to differences in post-translational proteolytic processing.
The rat chromogranin A, unlike its bovine and human counterparts, contained a 20-residue glutamine sequence inserted within the N-terminal beta-granin sequence.
Although the encoding CA(G/A) repeat recurs frequently in the rat genome, the rat chromogranin
A molecule appears to be the product of a single gene and mRNA transcript.'] 
27174148 Currently the full-text not available Viral evasion of intracellular DNA and RNA sensing.
Nature reviews.
Microbiology ['The co-evolution of viruses with their hosts has led to the emergence of viral pathogens that are adept at evading or actively suppressing host immunity.
Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are key components of antiviral immunity that detect conserved molecular features of viral pathogens and initiate signalling that results in the expression of antiviral genes.
In this Review, we discuss the strategies that viruses use to escape immune surveillance by key intracellular sensors of viral RNA or DNA, with a focus on RIG-I-like receptors (RLRs), cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and interferon-γ (IFNγ)-inducible protein 16 (IFI16).
Such viral strategies include the sequestration or modification of viral nucleic acids, interference with specific post-translational modifications of PRRs or their adaptor proteins, the degradation or cleavage of PRRs or their adaptors, and the sequestration or relocalization of PRRs.
An understanding of viral immune-evasion mechanisms at the molecular level may guide the development of vaccines and antivirals.'] 
3755681
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1166971/pdf/
The primary structure of bovine chromogranin A: a representative of a class of acidic secretory proteins common to a variety of peptidergic cells.
The EMBO journal ['We have determined the primary structure of bovine chromogranin A as a first step in the elucidation of the function of this widespread protein.
After oligonucleotide screening of a cDNA library of bovine adrenal medulla, a clone (insert length 1.9 kb) containing the entire coding region for chromogranin A was isolated and sequenced.
The authenticity of the sequence was verified by comparison with N-terminal, several internal, and C-terminal amino acid sequences as well as the amino acid composition of chromogranin A. The cDNA clone hybridized to an mRNA of 2.1 kb and, after in vitro transcription-translation, yielded a polypeptide with a similar electrophoretic mobility in SDS gels to chromogranin A. The polypeptide chain of chromogranin A comprises 431 amino acid residues, corresponding to an unmodified protein of 48 kd, and is preceded by a cleaved signal peptide of 18 amino acid residues.
Interesting features of the chromogranin A structure include repeated clusters of glutamic acid residues, the occurrence of eight potential dibasic cleavage sites, six of which are located in the C-terminal domain, and the presence, in the N-terminal domain, of -Arg-Gly-Asp- (RGD), a three amino acid sequence involved in the binding of several constitutively secreted proteins to cell membranes.'] 
25790474 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4366210/pdf/
Single amino acid change in STING leads to constitutive active signaling.
PloS one ['The production of cytokines by the immune system in response to cytosolic DNA plays an important role in host defense, autoimmune disease, and cancer immunogenicity.
Recently a cytosolic DNA signaling pathway that is dependent on the endoplasmic reticulum adaptor and cyclic dinucleotide sensor protein STING has been identified.
Association of cytosolic DNA with cyclic-GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) activates its enzymatic activity to synthesize the cyclic dinucleotide second messenger cGAMP from GTP and ATP. Direct detection of cGAMP by STING triggers the activation of IRF3 and NF-kB, and the production of type I interferons and proinflammatory cytokines.
The mechanism of how STING is able to mediate downstream signaling remains incompletely understood although it has been shown that dimerization is a prerequisite.
Here, we identify a single amino acid change in STING that confers constitutive active signaling.
This mutation appears to both enhance ability of STING to both dimerize and associate with its downstream target TBK1.'] 
15910593 Currently the full-text not available Clinicopathological and immunohistochemical analysis of 20 cases of Merkel cell carcinoma in search of prognostic markers.
Histopathology [StringElement('To evaluate the clinicopathological and immunohistochemical characteristics of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) in an attempt to find new, potentially significant, prognostic markers.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS'}), StringElement("Clinical data and follow-up, histopathological features (pattern, cell size, thickness, mitoses, vascular invasion, lymphocytic infiltration) and immunohistochemical detection [CK20, thyroid transcription factor (TTF-1), chromogranin A, synaptophysin, p53, Ki67, Fli-1, CD99, c-Kit] were evaluated in 20 cases of MCC. Fli-1 and CD99 were detected in 90% and 55% of cases, respectively.
Tumour size>30 mm, stage II, 'absent' lymphocytic infiltration, and the presence of>50% of Ki67+ tumour cells, were found to be prognostic indicators of disease-free interval (DFI), but only 'absent' lymphocytic infiltration constituted an independent prognostic factor of DFI after multivariate analysis.
For overall survival, the same variables, together with local recurrence and lymph node involvement, had prognostic significance, with only local recurrence as an independent prognostic factor after multivariate analysis."
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS'}), StringElement('Absence of lymphocytic infiltration and Ki67 immunoreactivity in more than 50% of tumour cells should be evaluated in conjunction with other well-known prognostic markers in MCC.
Furthermore, recognizing that Fli-1 and CD99 expression is commonly found in MCC by immunohistochemistry may avoid misinterpretation in the differential diagnosis of MCC with other small round cell tumours.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
15887103 Currently the full-text not available Precursor lesions in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1-associated duodenal gastrinomas.
Gastroenterology [
StringElement('The identification of precursor lesions has a great impact on the understanding of tumorigenesis.
Precursor lesions of endocrine tumors are known to occur in the setting of the MEN1 syndrome.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that MEN1-associated
duodenal gastrinomas originate from diffuse preneoplastic gastrin cell changes.
Precursor lesions may precede the development of duodenal gastrinomas because, in contrast to sporadic gastrinomas, these tumors are usually multiple.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND & AIMS'}), StringElement('The distribution of endocrine cells in the nontumorous duodenal tissue was analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively for 25 patients operated on for a duodenal gastrinoma.
MEN1 status was assessed clinically and by polymerase chain reaction-based mutational analysis.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Fourteen of 25 patients with gastrinoma had proliferative, hyperplastic lesions consisting of gastrin cells in the nontumorous duodenal mucosa, similar to the gastric enterochromaffin-like cell lesions observed in chronic atrophic gastritis.
All patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome with proven MEN1 had such proliferative gastrin cell lesions, and all patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome without precursor lesions were MEN1 negative.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Duodenal gastrinomas in MEN1, but not sporadic duodenal gastrinomas, are associated with proliferative gastrin cell changes within the nontumorous mucosa.
It is likely that these lesions precede the development of MEN1-associated duodenal gastrinomas.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
16226109 Currently the full-text not available Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the uterine cervix with cytogenetic analysis by comparative genomic hybridization: a case study.
Human pathology ['Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) of the uterine cervix is a newly introduced category of the revised World Health Organization classification.
We reported a case of cervical LCNEC with cytogenetic analysis by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH).
The cervical tumor showed moderately increased mitotic activity (8-14 mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields) and focal necrosis, which made it problematic to differentiate from atypical carcinoid.
CGH analysis failed to detect chromosome 11q loss that has been reported to be characteristic of pulmonary atypical carcinoids.
Furthermore, chromosome 3q amplification, which has been detected frequently in pulmonary small cell carcinomas and LCNECs but not in pulmonary typical and atypical carcinoids, was the most remarkable chromosomal aberration.
Although CGH reports are extremely rare in neuroendocrine tumors of the uterine cervix, specific chromosomal aberrations may be useful in their distinction.'] 
27428429 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4919473/pdf/
Upregulated LINE-1 Activity in the Fanconi Anemia Cancer Susceptibility Syndrome Leads to Spontaneous Pro-inflammatory Cytokine Production.
EBioMedicine ['Fanconi Anemia (FA) is a genetic disorder characterized by elevated cancer susceptibility and pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
Using SLX4(FANCP) deficiency as a working model, we questioned the trigger for chronic inflammation in FA. We found that absence of SLX4 caused cytoplasmic DNA accumulation, including sequences deriving from active Long INterspersed Element-1 (LINE-1), triggering the cGAS-STING pathway to elicit interferon (IFN) expression.
In agreement, absence of SLX4 leads to upregulated LINE-1 retrotransposition.
Importantly, similar results were obtained with the FANCD2 upstream activator of SLX4.
Furthermore, treatment of FA cells with the Tenofovir reverse transcriptase inhibitor (RTi), that prevents endogenous retrotransposition, decreased both accumulation of cytoplasmic DNA and pro-inflammatory signaling.
Collectively, our data suggest a contribution of endogenous RT activities to the generation of immunogenic cytoplasmic nucleic acids responsible for inflammation in FA.
The additional observation that RTi decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine production induced by DNA replication stress-inducing drugs further demonstrates the contribution of endogenous RTs to sustaining chronic inflammation.
Altogether, our data open perspectives in the prevention of adverse effects of chronic inflammation in tumorigenesis.'] 
19762372 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2765367/pdf/ Hypothesis-driven candidate gene association studies: practical design and analytical considerations.
American journal of epidemiology ['Candidate gene association studies (CGAS) are a useful epidemiologic approach to drawing inferences about relations between genes and disease, especially when experimental data support the involvement of specific biochemical pathways.
The value of CGAS is apparent when allele frequencies are low, effect sizes are small, or the study population is limited or unique.
CGAS is also valuable for validating previous reports of genetic associations with disease in different populations.
Despite the many advantages, the information generated from CGAS is sometimes compromised because of either inefficient study design or suboptimal analytical approaches.
Here the authors discuss issues related to the study design and statistical analyses of CGAS that can help to optimize their usefulness and information content.
These issues include judicious hypothesis-driven selection of biochemical pathways, genes, and single nucleotide polymorphisms, as well as appropriate quality control and analytical procedures for measuring main effects and for evaluating environmental exposure modifications and interactions.
A study design algorithm using the example of DNA repair genes and cancer is presented for purposes of illustration.'] 
14708728 Currently the full-text not available Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma with neuroendocrine differentiation: a case report with fine-needle aspiration biopsy, histopathology, electron microscopy, and cytogenetics.
Ultrastructural pathology ['Although extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (EMC) is a rare soft tissue sarcoma, its morphological, ultrastructural, and cytogenetical features have been well investigated.
The authors describe a very rare variant of EMC with neuroendocrine differentiation.
A 49-year-old woman presented with an 11-cm, deep-seated, lobulated soft tissue mass in the left thigh and a lymph node metastasis in the left groin.
Analysis of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) smears and a cellblock prepared from FNAB material, as well as histological sections of the excised tumor, showed a neoplasm composed of rounded and elongated cells arranged in strands and cords in a myxoid background matrix.
The nuclei were rounded and often eccentric.
The immunohistochemical phenotype was S-100 protein -, neuron specific enolase +, and chromogranin A+. Electron microscopy showed tumor cells harboring numerous mitochondria, partial basal lamina, and unequivocal neuroendocrine granules.
Molecular genetic analysis revealed a TAF15/NR4A3 fusion, a characteristic rearrangement occurring in about 25% of cytogenetically investigated EMC. A few cases of EMC with neuroendocrine differentiation have been reported.
However, the only previously described case with genetic information also displayed the t(9;17) instead of the more common t(9;22), suggesting an association between type of primary chromosome abnormality and neuroendocrine differentiation.'] 
24387268 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3992032/pdf/
IGRP and insulin vaccination induce CD8+ T cell-mediated autoimmune diabetes in the RIP-CD80GP mouse.
Clinical and experimental immunology ["Autoimmune diabetes is characterized by autoantigen-specific T cell-mediated destruction of pancreatic islet beta cells, and CD8(+) T cells are key players during this process.
We assessed whether the bitransgenic RIP-CD80 x RIP-LCMV-GP (RIP-CD80GP) mice may be a versatile antigen-specific model of inducible CD8(+)
T cell-mediated autoimmune diabetes.
Antigen-encoding DNA, peptide-loaded dendritic cells and antigen plus incomplete Freund's adjuvant were used for vaccination.
Of 14 pancreatic proteins tested by DNA vaccination, murine pre-proinsulin 2 (100% of mice; median time after vaccination, 60 days) and islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein (IGRP) (77%, 58 days) could induce diabetes.
Vaccination with DNA encoding for zinc transporter 8, Ia-2, Ia-2β, glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (Gad67), chromogranin A, insulinoma amyloid polypeptide and homeobox protein Nkx-2.2 induced diabetes development in 25-33% of mice.
Vaccination with DNA encoding for Gad65, secretogranin 5, pancreas/duodenum homeobox protein 1 (Pdx1), carboxyl ester lipase, glucagon and control hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) induced diabetes in <20% of mice.
Diabetes induction efficiency could be increased by DNA vaccination with a vector encoding a ubiquitin-antigen fusion construct.
Diabetic mice had florid T cell islet infiltration.
CD8(+) T cell targets of IGRP were identified with a peptide library-based enzyme-linked immunospot assay, and diabetes could also be induced by vaccination with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted IGRP peptides loaded on mature dendritic cells.
Vaccination with antigen plus incomplete Freund's adjuvant, which can prevent diabetes in other models, led to rapid diabetes development in the RIP-CD80GP mouse.
We conclude that RIP-CD80GP mice are a versatile model of antigen specific autoimmune diabetes and may complement existing mouse models of autoimmune diabetes for evaluating CD8(+) T cell-targeted prevention strategies."] 
15602048 Currently the full-text not available Global expression analysis of ECL cells in Mastomys natalensis gastric mucosa identifies alterations in the AP-1 pathway induced by gastrin-mediated transformation.
Physiological genomics ['Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell hyperplasia and then irreversible neoplasia can be generated in the African rodent Mastomys natalensis using the H2 receptor blocker, loxtidine, for 8-16 wk.
We used a GeneChip approach complemented by standard technologies to identify gene expression alterations in the gastric mucosa during gastrin-mediated ECL cell transformation.
Gastric mucosa (mucosal scrapping) and ECL cell-enriched fractions were obtained from untreated Mastomys (controls) and from animals treated with loxtidine for 8 wk (hyperplasia).
Tumor ECL cells were obtained by hand-dissection of gastric ECL cell nodules from animals treated with loxtidine for >16 wk and from a spontaneously developed ECL cell tumor.
RNA was isolated, examined on rat U34A GeneChips, and comparison analysis was performed to identify altered gene expression.
Alterations in gene expressions were examined further by immunohistochemistry, quantitative RT-PCR (Q-RT-PCR), sequencing and Western blot.
GeneSpring analysis demonstrated alterations in few genes (<20) in hyperplastic and tumor mucosa.
The histamine H1 receptor was consistently increased in proliferating mucosa.
This gene change was confirmed by Q-RT-PCR. Other genes showing alterations included neural-(chromogranin A and somatostatin), cell-cycle-, and AP-1-associated genes.
Immunostaining confirmed alterations in neural markers.
Cluster analysis of ECL cell-enriched samples demonstrated that c-fos and junD were differently regulated.
Q-RT-PCR and Western blot in prospectively collected gastric mucosal samples confirmed the differential expression of Fos and Jun.
The negative regulators of AP-1, JunD, and Menin were decreased in tumor mucosa.
A missense of unknown function was noted in the menin gene.
Hypergastrinemia in an animal model of gastric carcinoids differentially altered the histamine type 1 receptor and gene expression and protein composition of AP-1.
These results suggest that expression of this receptor and an altered composition of AP-1 with a loss of inhibition play a role in ECL cell transformation.'] 
10767595 Currently the full-text not available Distribution of (76)Br-labeled antisense oligonucleotides of different length determined ex vivo in rats.
European journal of pharmaceutical sciences : official journal of the European Federation for Pharmaceutical Sciences ["Oligonucleotides may hybridize with high selectivity to an RNA sequence and can be used for the monitoring of gene expression or for its inhibition in experimental or therapeutic purposes.
As part of the development of positron emission tomography (PET) methods, different lengths (30, 20, 12 and 6 mer) of antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides complementary to rat chromogranin A were labeled with [(76)Br] using a prosthetic group.
The (76)Br-oligonucleotides were injected into rat's tail vein (1-2 MBq/rat), and the radioactivity distribution was analyzed after 20 h using whole body autoradiography or by measurement of organ radioactivity concentration.
The whole body autoradiography showed different distribution depending on the oligonucleotide length.
The organs with highest uptake changed from kidney cortex (with 6 or 12 mer), kidney cortex and liver (with 20 mer), to liver and spleen (with 30 mer).
With 20 or 30 mer sequences, uptake could be observed in the adrenals.
Kidneys and livers from rats receiving 20 mer or 30 mer (76)Br-oligonucleotides were analyzed with respect to subcellular distribution and DNA/RNA/protein fraction.
30%-45% of the radioactivity was found in the nuclear fraction.
More than 80% of the radioactivity was recovered in the high molecular weight fraction (as proteins or oligonucleotides longer than 10 mer) using size exclusion (NAP 5) gelfiltration or cetylpyridinium bromide (CPB) precipitation.
This work indicates the potential to perform kinetic whole body studies of (76)Br-oligonucleotides using PET."] 
2118538 Currently the full-text not available Gonadotropin-releasing hormone regulates gonadotropin beta-subunit and chromogranin-B messenger ribonucleic acids in cultured chromogranin-A-positive pituitary adenomas.
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism ['Chromogranin-A-positive pituitary adenomas include glycoprotein hormone-producing adenomas, null cell adenomas, and a few other pituitary adenomas.
We studied the effects of GnRH, CRF, dexamethasone, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate on FSH and LH secretion and on FSH beta and chromogranin-A and -B mRNA expression in 10 chromogranin-A-positive adenomas in vitro to analyze the regulation of FSH and chromogranin-A and -B expression in these neoplasms.
Most adenomas responded to GnRH stimulation during 7 days in culture with a 2- to 10-fold increase in FSH and LH secretion and a 2- to 7-fold increase in FSH beta mRNA compared to control values.
CRF and phorbol 12-myristate
13-acetate also stimulated FSH and LH secretion 2- to 5-fold in five of seven and three of three cases, respectively, during 7 days in culture.
Dexamethasone stimulated both FSH and LH secretion in two of three cases as well as FSH beta mRNA in vitro in the one case examined.
GnRH treatment consistently produced a 2-fold increase in chromogranin-B mRNA, but not in chromogranin-A mRNA, after 7 days of culture.
These results indicate that many chromogranin-A-positive adenomas respond to GnRH and CRF in vitro by increased hormone secretion and that GnRH stimulation leads to increased amounts of FSH beta and chromogranin-B mRNAs.
The differential response of chromogranin-A and -B mRNAs after GnRH stimulation indicates that the chromogranin genes are highly regulated in these tumors.'] 
15217924 Currently the full-text not available Detection of prostate cancer and predicting progression: current and future diagnostic markers.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research ['Carcinoma of the prostate is the second leading cause of male cancer-related death in the United States.
Better indicators of prostate cancer presence and progression are needed to avoid unnecessary treatment, predict disease course, and develop more effective therapy.
Numerous molecular markers have been described in human serum, urine, seminal fluid, and histological specimens that exhibit varying capacities to detect prostate cancer and predict disease course.
However, to date, few of these markers have been adequately validated for clinical use.
The purpose of this review is to examine the current status of these markers in prostate cancer and to assess the diagnostic potential for future markers from identified genes and molecules that display loss, mutation, or alteration in expression between tumor and normal prostate tissues.
In this review we cite 91 molecular markers that display some level of correlation with prostate cancer presence, disease progression, cancer recurrence, prediction of response to therapy, and/or disease-free survival.
We suggest criteria to consider when selecting a marker for further development as a clinical tool and discuss five examples of markers (chromogranin A, glutathione S-transferase pi 1, prostate stem cell antigen, prostate-specific membrane antigen, and telomerase reverse transcriptase) that fulfill some of these criteria.
Finally, we discuss how to conduct evaluations of candidate prostate cancer markers and some of the issues involved in the validation process.'] 
8384991 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A does not mediate glucocorticoid inhibition of adrenocorticotropin secretion.
Endocrinology [
"It has recently been proposed that chromogranin A (CgA), a 50-kilodalton acidic glycoprotein that is costored and cosecreted with hormones and neurotransmitters in a variety of tissues, mediates glucocorticoid inhibition of ACTH secretion from AtT20/D16v mouse anterior pituitary corticotroph tumor cells by an undefined autocrine mechanism.
We used AtT20/D16v cells, RIAs for murine CgA and ACTH, complementary DNA probes for CgA and POMC, the precursor of ACTH, antiserum that reacts with murine CgA, highly purified bovine CgA, and synthetic rat and porcine pancreastatin, a bioactive cleavage product of CgA in some systems, to study the kinetics of the effect of glucocorticoids on CgA and ACTH synthesis and secretion and of CgA's subsequent effects on ACTH secretion.
Exposure to 100 nM dexamethasone (DEX) did not alter the size of CgA or POMC messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts but increased cell CgA mRNA content 42% by 3 h and 192% by 48 h. DEX decreased cell POMC mRNA content 22% by 6 h and 57% by 48 h. These divergent effects of DEX on steady state mRNA levels were accompanied by similar divergent effects on the production of CgA and ACTH protein.
Thirty-minute exposure to 10 nM ovine CRF increased CgA and ACTH release to 300% and 360% of basal levels, respectively.
One-hour DEX pretreatment inhibited CRF-stimulated CgA and ACTH release 58% and 49% at 30 min and 67% and 66% at 60 min, respectively.
There was a positive correlation between CgA and ACTH release under all conditions at both times (r = 0.976 and 0.964, respectively, P < 0.001), consistent with costorage and cosecretion of the two proteins.
The ratio of secreted ACTH to CgA decreased progressively with DEX treatment.
Purified bovine CgA (100 nM) had little or no effect on basal or CRF-stimulated ACTH secretion from AtT20/D16v cells, 100 nM synthetic pancreastatin had no significant effect on basal or CRF-stimulated ACTH release from AtT20/D16v cells or dispersed normal male rat anterior pituitary cells, and anti-
CgA sera had no significant effect on basal or CRF-stimulated ACTH release from AtT20/D16v cells.
These results indicate: 1) that DEX stimulates CgA synthesis, whereas it inhibits POMC synthesis; 2) that CgA and ACTH are cosecreted; 3) that DEX increases CgA secretion relative to ACTH secretion, but decreases the absolute secretion of both proteins; and 4) that neither CgA nor its proteolytic product, pancreastatin, inhibits ACTH secretion.
Thus, CgA does not mediate the inhibitory effect of DEX on ACTH secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"] 
11178984 Currently the full-text not available Differentially expressed cDNAs in PLCbeta3-induced tumor suppression in a human endocrine pancreatic tumor cell line: activation of the human mismatch repair protein 3 gene.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Phospholipase Cbeta3 (PLCB3) is located to chromosome 11q13 in the vicinity of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type1 (MEN1) gene and shows loss of expression in some neuroendocrine tumors.
Transfection of PLCB3 to neuroendocrine cell lines induces growth suppression and phenotypic alterations, but the mechanisms remain unclear.
To investigate the underlying events behind this tumor suppression, we performed an RT-Differential cDNA Display of total RNA from BON-1 (human endocrine pancreatic tumor cell line) transfected with PLCB3 and compared to wild type and BON-1 transfected with vector without insert.
PLCB3 transfection resulted in increased expression of 4 genes and decreased of 2.
The two inhibited were homologous to S100A3 and Chromogranin A.
One of the four activated cDNAs could be identified as human mismatch repair protein 3 mRNA (hMSH3), and another was homologous to TIS/MA-3 mRNA (mouse topoisomerase suppressor inhibited gene/mouse apoptosis gene-3).
Differential expression of these genes may contribute to the PLCB3-induced tumor suppression of neuroendocrine tumor cell lines.'] 
12242726 Currently the full-text not available Apoptosis resistance of neuroendocrine phenotypes in prostatic adenocarcinoma.
The Prostate [StringElement('Neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation has been implicated in prostate cancer progression and hormone therapy failure.
It has been shown that prostate cancer cells with NE features lack proliferation activity in vitro and in vivo.
The current study reports on the apoptotic status of NE phenotypes in human prostate cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Double-label techniques were used for simultaneous demonstration of the endocrine marker chromogranin A (ChrA) and DNA fragmentation assessed by the terminal transferase-mediated biotinylated 16-desoxy-uridine-tri-phosphate (bio-16-dUTP) nick-end-labeling (TUNEL) assay.
The material included primary prostatic adenocarcinoma (n = 18), lymph node metastases (n = 5), bone metastases (n = 2), and recurrent lesions (n = 10) showing NE differentiation at the immunohistochemical level.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Irrespective of grades, stages, and the degree of NE differentiation, DNA fragmentation was restricted to exocrine (ChrA-negative) tumor cells and was undetectable in most of NE tumor cells expressing ChrA. At least 0.16% of ChrA-positive tumor cells revealed DNA fragmentation assessed by the TUNEL assay.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The present data suggest that the vast majority of prostate cancer cells with NE features escapes programmed cell death.
This escape may contribute significantly to their drug resistance and their malignant potential.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
23887161 Currently the full-text not available Spindle cell oncocytomas and granular cell tumors of the pituitary are variants of pituicytoma.
The American journal of surgical pathology ['Pituicytomas are neoplasms that arise from pituicytes, which are specialized glia of the posterior pituitary.
Pituicytes have 5 ultrastructural variants: light, dark, granular, ependymal, and oncocytic.
Granular cell tumors of the pituitary gland are thought to arise from granular pituicytes.
Spindle cell oncocytomas are considered to arise from folliculostellate cells, which are sustentacular cells of the adenohypophysis.
Recent data suggest that, whereas pituicytes and all 3 tumor types are positive for TTF-1, folliculostellate cells are negative for TTF-1.
We investigated 7 spindle cell oncocytomas, 4 pituicytomas, and 3 granular cell tumors for their genetic (BRAF(V600E) mutation and BRAF-KIAA fusion), immunohistochemical (GFAP, vimentin, S100 protein, olig2, IDH1-R132H, NF, galectin-3, chromogranin-A, CD56, EMA, CAM5.2, CD68, TTF-1, and bcl-2), and ultrastructural features to refine their classification.
All tumors had nuclear positivity for TTF-1 and were negative for CAM5.2, chromogranin-A, and NF. GFAP, vimentin, S100, galectin-3, EMA, and CD68 were variably positive in the majority of the 3 tumor groups.
Olig2 was only positive in 1 pituicytoma.
Whereas granular cell tumors were negative for bcl-2 and CD56, pituicytomas and spindle cell oncocytomas showed variable positivity.
All tumors were negative with the IDH1-R132H mutation-specific antibody, and none had evidence of BRAF alterations (BRAF(V600E) mutation and BRAF-KIAA fusion).
Diffuse TTF-1 expression in nontumorous pituicytes, pituicytomas, spindle cell oncocytomas, and granular cell tumors indicates a common pituicyte lineage.
The ultrastructural variants of pituicytes are reflected in these 3 morphologic variants of tumors arising from these cells.
We propose the terminology "oncocytic pituicytomas" and "granular cell pituicytomas" to refine the classification of these lesions.'] 
2834189 Currently the full-text not available The sequence of porcine chromogranin
A messenger RNA demonstrates chromogranin A can serve as the precursor for the biologically active hormone, pancreastatin.
Endocrinology ['Specific oligonucleotide priming of double-stranded DNA has been employed to sequence a porcine chromogranin A adrenomedullary cDNA. Porcine chromogranin A is more than 80% identical to human, bovine, and rat chromogranin A at its deduced N- and C-termini.
A 49-amino acid region of the porcine molecule is 59-71% homologous to corresponding areas of rat, bovine, and human chromogranin A, and identical to the amino acid sequence of porcine pancreastatin.
The sequence is preceded by an arginine at the N-terminus and followed by a GKR sequence at the C-terminus.
Thus, porcine chromogranin A can serve as the precursor for pancreastatin, a polypeptide capable of inhibiting insulin release from the endocrine pancreas and acid secretion from parietal cells of the gut.'] 
3146898 Currently the full-text not available The effects of forskolin and calcium ionophore A23187 on secretion and cytoplasmic RNA levels of Chromogranin-A and calcitonin.
Journal of bone and mineral research : the official journal of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research ['We have studied the regulation of the secretion and cytoplasmic RNA levels of calcitonin (CT) and Chromogranin-A (CgA) to determine if the biosynthesis and secretion of these two substances are controlled in a coordinated fashion.
The studies were conducted in two cell lines, a medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) cell line and a lung tumor (BEN) cell line.
Both cell types secrete CT and CgA. Forskolin treatment resulted in a significant increase in the secretion of CT and CgA in each cell line and in CT-specific cytoplasmic RNA in the MTC cell line.
Treatment with calcium ionophore A23187 resulted in significantly increased secretion of both substances in the lung tumor cells but not in the medullary thyroid carcinoma cells.
A significant increase in CT-specific or CgA-specific cytoplasmic RNA was not seen in either cell line.
We conclude that the secretion of CT and CgA are regulated in a coordinated fashion in these cell lines through processes that are calcium-mediated and processes that involve cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A.
However, each of these regulatory pathways is not always operative in a given tissue.
The coordinate regulation of the secretion of CT and CgA supports the hypothesis that CgA participates in the secretory process of its associated hormones.'] 
11431981 Currently the full-text not available [Construction of CgA gene antisense transgenic mice]. Yi chuan xue bao = Acta genetica Sinica ['
In order to get CgA gene antisense DNA transgenic mouse, we constructed the CgA gene antisense DNA plasmid pCAS2C and microinjected it into the female pronucleus of fertilized mouse eggs, and transplanted them into oviduct of the foster.
Every offspring of the fosters was determined by the PCR method.
The positive mice had a 300 bp DNA electrophoresis band.
We selected two male positive mice from 50 offspring survived of the pseudomother.
Then, two positive mice crossed with normal mice respectively to reproduce offspring of F1.
All offspring of F1 were determined by PCR to select positive offspring.
Positive offspring of F1 carried only one allele of pCAS2C (heterozygous pCAS2C/-).
Positive F1 offspring were selfcrossed, 1/4 offspring of F2 carrying two unites of one allele pCAS2C (pCAS2C/pCAS2C) are homozygous.
Then, all offspring of homozygous F2 crossed with normal mice, could produce 300 bp DNA electrophoresis band by PCR.
Total RNA of brain tissue of transgenic mouse was used to RT-PCR method, the 300 bp DNA product was obtained.
The result indicates that the reading frame of CgA antisense DNA of pCAS2C has expressed in the transgenic mice.'] 
10993440 Currently the full-text not available Acinar-islet cell tumor of the pancreas: report of a malignant pancreatic composite tumor.
Journal of clinical gastroenterology ['An unusual case of malignant pancreatic composite tumor with both components of acinar cell tumor (ACT) and islet cell tumor (ICT) was investigated histologically, immunohistochemically, and ultrastructurally.
The pancreatic tumor with central cyst formation was found on computerized tomographic examination of a 72-year-old man reporting appetite and weight loss.
The ACT component was present in the original pancreatic region and the ICT region was adjacent to the ACT. ACT was immunohistochemically positive for pancreatic amylase, whereas ICT had argyrophil tumor cells immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin A.
There were several tumor cell nests positive for both pancreatic amylase (acinar differentiation) and chromogranin A (islet differentiation).
We speculated that ICT may have arisen from the de-differentiated tumor cells in the ACT after the occurrence of ACT.'] 
23085319 Currently the full-text not available Exploiting genes and functional diversity of chlorogenic acid and luteolin biosyntheses in Lonicera japonica and their substitutes.
Gene ['Chlorogenic acids (CGAs) and luteolin are active compounds in Lonicera japonica, a plant of high medicinal value in traditional Chinese medicine.
This study provides a comprehensive overview of gene families involved in chlorogenic acid and luteolin biosynthesis in L. japonica, as well as its substitutes Lonicera hypoglauca and Lonicera macranthoides.
The gene sequence feature and gene expression patterns in various tissues and buds of the species were characterized.
Bioinformatics analysis revealed that 14 chlorogenic acid and luteolin biosynthesis-related genes were identified from the L. japonica transcriptome assembly.
Phylogenetic analyses suggested that the function of individual gene could be differentiation and induce active compound diversity.
Their orthologous genes were also recognized in L. hypoglauca and L. macranthoides genomic datasets, except for LHCHS1 and LMC4H2.
The expression patterns of these genes are different in the tissues of L. japonica, L. hypoglauca and L. macranthoides.
Results also showed that CGAs were controlled in the first step of biosynthesis, whereas both steps controlled luteolin in the bud of L. japonica.
The expression of LJFNS2 exhibited positive correlation with luteolin levels in L. japonica.
This study provides significant information for understanding the functional diversity of gene families involved in chlorogenic acid and the luteolin biosynthesis, active compound diversity of L. japonica and its substitutes, and the different usages of the three species.'] 
1856109 Currently the full-text not available In situ hybridization study of chromogranin A and B mRNA in carcinoid tumors.
Histochemistry ['The distribution of the mRNAs for chromogranin A and B was analyzed by in situ hybridization with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded carcinoid tumor tissues.
All the 15 mid-gut carcinoid tumors examined contained both mRNAs for chromogranin A and B at high level in tumor cells.
Sixteen of 18 bronchial carcinoid tumors but only 2 of 5 rectal carcinoid tumors expressed one or both species of chromogranin mRNAs.
The same tendency was seen with the argyrophil reaction according to Grimelius where most of the mid-gut tumor cells were uniformly stained, while considerable variation in reactivity was seen in some of the bronchial and rectal carcinoid tumor cells.
The sequential sections were stained with a monoclonal antibody against chromogranin A and a polyclonal antiserum which reacts with both chromogranins.
The expression of the mRNA for chromogranin A on the carcinoid tumors was almost concordant with that of chromogranin B as well as with the chromogranin
A protein, whereas almost all tumors stained positively with the polyclonal antibodies.
Analyses of mRNA expression of chromogranin A before and after interferon therapy on 4 patients with mid-gut carcinoids indicated an inhibition at pre-translational level.
In conclusion, the mRNAs for chromogranin A and B are good markers for the carcinoid tumors, especially of mid-gut origin.
Fore-gut, mid-gut and rectal carcinoid tumors are different in their endocrine properties regarding the expression of the chromogranins.'] 
25752600 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4419793/pdf/
OASes and STING: adaptive evolution in concert.
Genome biology and evolution ["OAS (2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthases) proteins and cyclic GMP-AMP synthase
(cGAS, gene symbol:
MB21D1) patrol the cytoplasm for the presence of foreign nucleic acids.
Upon binding to double-stranded RNA or double-stranded DNA, OAS proteins and cGAS produce nucleotide second messengers to activate RNase L and STING (stimulator of interferon genes, gene symbol: TMEM173), respectively; this leads to the initiation of antiviral responses.
We analyzed the evolutionary history of the MB21D1-TMEM173 and OAS-RNASEL axes in primates and bats and found evidence of widespread positive selection in both orders.
In TMEM173, residue 230, a major determinant of response to natural ligands and to mimetic drugs (e.g., DMXAA), was positively selected in Primates and Chiroptera.
In both orders, selection also targeted an α-helix/loop element in RNase L that modulates the enzyme preference for single-stranded RNA versus stem loops.
Analysis of positively selected sites in OAS1, OAS2, and MB21D1 revealed parallel evolution, with the corresponding residues being selected in different genes.
As this cannot result from gene conversion, these data suggest that selective pressure acting on OAS and MB21D1 genes is related to nucleic acid recognition and to the specific mechanism of enzyme activation, which requires a conformational change.
Finally, a population genetics-phylogenetics analysis in humans, chimpanzees, and gorillas detected several positively selected sites in most genes.
Data herein shed light into species-specific differences in infection susceptibility and in response to synthetic compounds, with relevance for the design of synthetic compounds as vaccine adjuvants."] 
2097516 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A in the olfactory system of the rat.
Neuroscience ['The olfactory bulb of the rat contains chromogranin A at a similar level as the adrenal gland or the hypophysis as revealed by immunoblots.
Olfactory chromogranin A also displays the same size as chromogranin A of endocrine cells.
In the hippocampus and other brain regions, we could not detect chromogranin A by immunoblotting.
In contrast, chromogranin
A messenger ribonucleic acid (using S1 nuclease protection assays) was observed in all brain regions examined, including the olfactory bulb.
By in situ hybridization histochemistry with a complementary ribonucleic acid probe (280 nucleotides), and by immunocytochemistry, chromogranin A synthesis could be localized to cell bodies of the mitral cell layer, of the external plexiform layer and of the periglomerular region of the olfactory bulb.
Immunocytochemically,
chromogranin A was also detected in the central projection areas of mitral and tufted cells in the primary olfactory cortex and the anterior amygdaloid area but not in the olfactory glomeruli, where the incoming olfactory nerve fibers of the primary olfactory neurons establish synaptic contacts.
Taken together the data show that chromogranin A, following biosynthesis in the perikarya of the mitral and tufted cells, is specifically transported into their axonal terminals but not into their primary dendrites.
We propose that the rat olfactory system could serve as a model for the study of chromogranin A regulation and function in neurons.'] 
2793216 Currently the full-text not available Molecular cloning of chromogranin A from rat pheochromocytoma cells.
Hypertension (Dallas, Tex.
: 1979) ['Chromogranin A (CgA) is the major soluble protein in catecholamine storage vesicles.
To gain insight into its function, we isolated CgA clones from a size-selected lambda gt10 rat pheochromocytoma complementary DNA (cDNA) library.
The longest cDNA insert identified was 2.2 kb and encoded the entire 462-amino acid open reading frame of rat CgA including an 18-amino acid hydrophobic signal peptide.
Comparison of rat CgA with the recently published sequences of bovine CgA and human CgA revealed regions of strong homology at the N-and COOH-termini as well as variant areas predominantly in the middle portion of the molecule.
Regions highly conserved and therefore suggestive of functional importance included 1) multiple paired basic residues, which may serve as proteolytic processing signals; 2) a region homologous to porcine pancreastatin, a putative modulator of peptide hormone release; and 3) a short hydrophobic disulfide loop region near the N-terminus that may have a role in the targeting of CgA to secretory vesicles.
On the other hand, lack of conservation of the membrane attachment sequence arginine-glycine-aspartic acid argues against its functional importance in CgA.
In addition, the presence of a unique polyglutamine region in rat CgA points to a possible messenger RNA (mRNA) splice junction.
Northern blot experiments demonstrated the presence of an approximately 2.2 kb rat CgA mRNA in a neuroendocrine distribution (adrenal, brain, pheochromocytoma cells, but not skeletal muscle, heart, or kidney).
Southern blot studies were consistent with the presence of a single CgA gene within the rat pheochromocytoma cell genome.
Finally, comparison of the present rat pheochromocytoma cDNA clones with those recently obtained from normal rat adrenal gland reveals minor but apparently real differences that suggest CgA microheterogeneity.'] 
12647216 Currently the full-text not available Mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas of the pancreas and ductal adenocarcinomas with scattered endocrine cells: characterization of the endocrine cells.
Virchows Archiv : an international journal of pathology ['We compared the histological and immunohistochemical features of mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas of the pancreas with those of ductal adenocarcinomas (DACs) containing scattered tumor-associated endocrine cells (SECs).
Three pancreatic neoplasms fulfilled the WHO criteria for mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas.
Two of them showed moderately to poorly differentiated glandular structures composed of both mucin producing and neuroendocrine cells.
The third mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma was of the composite type showing DAC structures and a solid component with small epithelial cells, most of them of neuroendocrine nature.
In 32 of 34 cases of DAC located in the head (30 cases) and body to tail (4 cases) of the pancreas and showing lymph-node metastases, SECs were found, but they were few in number and irregularly distributed in the tumors.
In three DACs a few SECs were also detected in lymph-node metastases.
Double staining for chromogranin A and the proliferation marker Ki-S5 revealed that all SECs that were not intimately integrated into the neoplastic glandular epithelium failed to show proliferative activity and changes of the expression of tumor suppressor genes (p53 and DPC 4).
These findings suggest that only those SECs that belong to the proliferative cell fraction may be of neoplastic origin, while the majority of SECs probably constitute a tumor-associated but non-neoplastic cell population.
These features contrast with those of mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas, in which all endocrine cells are a component of the neoplasm.'] 
3474638 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC305243/pdf/ Primary structure of bovine pituitary secretory protein I (chromogranin A) deduced from the cDNA sequence.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Secretory protein I (SP-I), also referred to as chromogranin A, is an acidic glycoprotein that has been found in every tissue of endocrine and neuroendocrine origin examined but never in exocrine or epithelial cells.
Its co-storage and co-secretion with peptide hormones and neurotransmitters suggest that it has an important endocrine or secretory function.
We have isolated cDNA clones from a bovine pituitary lambda gt11 expression library using an antiserum to parathyroid SP-I. The largest clone (SP4B) (approximately equal to 1.6 kilobases) hybridized to a transcript of 2.1 kilobases in RNA from parathyroid, pituitary, and adrenal medulla.
Immunoblots of bacterial lysates derived from SP4B lysogens demonstrated specific antibody binding to an SP4B/beta-galactosidase fusion protein (160 kDa) with a cDNA-derived component of 46 kDa.
Radioimmunoassay of the bacterial lysates with SP-I antiserum yielded parallel displacement curves of 125I-labeled SP-I by the SP4B lysate and authentic SP-I. SP4B contains a cDNA of 1614 nucleotides that encodes a 449-amino acid protein (calculated mass, 50 kDa).
The nucleotide sequences of the pituitary SP-I cDNA and adrenal medullary SP-I cDNAs are nearly identical.
Analysis of genomic DNA suggests that pituitary, adrenal, and parathyroid SP-I are products of the same gene.'] 
2347900 Currently the full-text not available Expression of chromogranin-A messenger ribonucleic acid in parathyroid tissue from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism ['Chromogranin-A (CgA), also termed secretory protein-
I, is an acidic glycoprotein that is synthesized and secreted by cells of the diffuse endocrine and neuroendocrine system.
Several previous studies had suggested that plasma levels of CgA were elevated in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
In the present study we sought to examine expression of the CgA gene in human parathyroid tissue from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
We characterized the mRNAs coding for CgA and beta-actin in parathyroid tissue fragments obtained from 12 patients with parathyroid adenomas, 11 patients with familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (FMEN I) with parathyroid hyperplasia, and 11 normal subjects.
The mRNAs were detected and analyzed by dot and Northern blot hybridization using cDNA probes.
CgA mRNA transcripts of 2.1 kilobases were detected in normal and pathological parathyroids.
Similarly, beta-actin mRNA species of 2.1 kilobases was present in all tissues.
The relative level of parathyroid tissue CgA mRNA, calculated as the CgA/beta-actin mRNA ratio, was 73 +/- 18 in parathyroid adenoma, 73 +/- 20 in FMEN I, and 100 +/- 9 in controls (mean +/- SE; expressed as a percentage of the control reference group value).
There were no significant differences among the steady state levels of CgA mRNA levels in these three groups (F = 0.98; P = 0.39).
These results demonstrate that expression of CgA mRNA is qualitatively and quantitatively normal in parathyroid tumors from patients with FMEN I and parathyroid adenoma.'] 
12371140 Currently the full-text not available Modulation of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells in idiopathic interstitial pneumonia.
Histology and histopathology ['
In order to reveal modulation of the number of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNEC) in interstitial lung diseases and to clarify significance of cell proliferation activity in occurrence of PNEC, we counted airway PNEC of the patients of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia, secondary interstitial pneumonia and control lungs, and compared the number of PNEC with airway Ki-67 labeling.
The lung tissue samples were obtained by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery from 22 patients with usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP), 7 with non-specific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP), 8 with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonia (CHP), 13 with collagen vascular disease (CVD), and were compared with age-matched control lungs.
The tissues were immunostained for chromogranin A and for Ki-67.
Average incidence of bronchiolar PNEC in normal, UIP, NSIP, CHP, CVD lungs was 0.169%, 0.348%, 0.326%, 0.175% and 0.201%, respectively, and average Ki-67 labeling index in them was 0.241%, 1.186%, 1.605%, 1.058%, and 2.353%, respectively.
And, in UIP lungs, PNEC incidence or Ki-67 labeling index was different according to pathological lesions.
Thus, PNEC increase in the bronchiole of UIP, and the incidence of PNEC varies according to degree of activity of epithelial cell proliferation probably related to epithelial cell injury.
Moreover, enhanced expression of human homolog of achaete-scute complex (hASH1) mRNA in UIP lungs suggests that hASH1 could play roles in the regulation of PNEC.'] 
25240798 Currently the full-text not available Unmasking immune sensing of retroviruses: interplay between innate sensors and host effectors.
Cytokine & growth factor reviews ['Retroviruses can selectively trigger an array of innate immune responses through various PRR.
The identification and the characterization of the molecular basis of retroviral DNA sensing by the DNA sensors IFI16 and cGAS has been one of the most exciting developments in viral immunology in recent years.
DNA sensing by these cytosolic sensors not only leads to the initiation of the type I interferon (IFN) antiviral response and the induction of the inflammatory response, but also triggers cell death mechanisms including pyroptosis and apoptosis in retrovirus-infected cells, thereby providing important insights into the pathophysiology of chronic retroviral infection.
Host restriction factors such as SAMHD1 and Trex1 play important roles in regulating innate immune sensing, and have led to the idea that innate immune defense and host restriction actually converge at different levels to determine the outcome of retroviral infection.
In this review, we discuss the sensing of retroviruses by cytosolic DNA sensors, the relevance of host factors during retroviral infection, and the interplay between host factors and the innate antiviral response in different cell types, within the context of two human pathogenic retroviruses - human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and human T cell-leukemia virus type I (HTLV-1).'] 
26229115 Currently the full-text not available Transmission of innate immune signaling by packaging of cGAMP in viral particles.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ["Infected cells detect viruses through a variety of receptors that initiate cell-intrinsic innate defense responses.
Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic sensor for many DNA viruses and HIV-1.
In response to cytosolic viral DNA, cGAS synthesizes the second messenger 2'3'-cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), which activates antiviral signaling pathways.
We show that in cells producing virus, cGAS-synthesized cGAMP can be packaged in viral particles and extracellular vesicles.
Viral particles efficiently delivered cGAMP to target cells.
cGAMP transfer by viral particles to dendritic cells activated innate immunity and antiviral defenses.
Finally, we show that cell-free murine cytomegalovirus and Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus contained cGAMP.
Thus, transfer of cGAMP by viruses may represent a defense mechanism to propagate immune responses to uninfected target cells."] 
2573279 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1683438/pdf/
The human chromogranin
A gene: chromosome assignment and RFLP analysis.
American journal of human genetics ['Chromogranin A/secretory protein I (CgA) is a glycoprotein that is stored and released along with peptide hormones and neurotransmitters from several tissues, although its exact function is not known.
A cDNA (gene symbol CHGA) clone was used as a probe in Southern blot analyses of human-rodent somatic cell hybrid DNAs.
Discordancy analysis allowed confirmation of the assignment of the gene to chromosome 14.
These results were extended using in situ chromosome hybridization, and a signal was found at 14q32.
BglII digestion of genomic DNA from 28 unrelated Caucasian individuals probed with CHGA detected a two-allele RFLP with allelic frequencies of .34 and .66.'] 
15956248 Currently the full-text not available ZM336372, a Raf-1 activator, suppresses growth and neuroendocrine hormone levels in carcinoid tumor cells.
Molecular cancer therapeutics ['Neuroendocrine tumors, such as carcinoids, are highly metastatic neoplasms that secrete bioactive hormones resulting in carcinoid syndrome.
Few curative treatments exist outside of surgical resection.
We have previously shown that activation of the Raf-1 signaling pathway can suppress hormone production in carcinoid tumor cells.
In this study, we investigated a novel treatment for carcinoid tumor cell growth based on pharmacologic Raf-1 activation using the compound ZM336372.
Treatment of carcinoid tumor cells with ZM336372 resulted in progressive phosphorylation of Raf-1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1/2, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2.
Importantly, exposure to ZM336372 resulted in a significant reduction of bioactive hormone levels as well as the transcription factor, human achaete-scute homologue-1 in carcinoid tumor cells.
Furthermore, treatment with ZM336372 led to a marked suppression of cellular proliferation and induction of the cell cycle inhibitors p21 and p18.
In summary, ZM336372 targets both proliferation and palliative issues associated with carcinoid tumor cells, and therefore, warrants further investigation as a possible therapeutic strategy for patients with carcinoid tumors.'] 
3814131 Currently the full-text not available The gene for human chromogranin A (CgA) is located on chromosome 14.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Chromogranin A (CgA) is a protein that is present in most neuroendocrine tissues and is co-secreted with their resident hormones.
We have assigned the CgA gene to human chromosome 14 by hybridization of a CgA cDNA probe cloned from a cDNA library of human medullary thyroid carcinoma cells to spots of individual human chromosomes flow-sorted onto nitrocellulose filters.
Southern analysis of human genomic DNA with the same probe revealed only 1-3 restriction bands.
These studies indicate that the CgA gene is probably single copy and not a member of a dispersed, multigene family.
The CgA gene is not co-localized with the genes of any of the CgA-associated hormones.'] 
3403545
Currently the full-text not available Molecular cloning and primary structure of human chromogranin A (secretory protein I) cDNA. The Journal of biological chemistry ["Chromogranin A (CGA), also referred to as secretory protein I, is an acidic protein that has been detected in all neuroendocrine cell types examined and is often present in large amounts relative to other secreted proteins.
For example, CGA comprises at least 40% of the soluble protein of the adrenal chromaffin granule, and it appears to be the major secretory protein in the parathyroid secretory granules.
CGA complementary DNAs (cDNAs) from
bovine adrenal and pituitary have recently been cloned and sequenced and found to be nearly identical.
A region of bovine CGA has a high degree of amino acid sequence identity to pancreastatin, a recently isolated porcine peptide that inhibits glucose-induced insulin secretion.
This suggests that CGA may be a prohormone.
We have cloned and sequenced a human cDNA encoding CGA.
This human CGA cDNA has an overall 86% nucleic acid identity to the bovine cDNA. Like the bovine CGA cDNA, the human cDNA has little homology to pancreastatin at the 5' region of this peptide but significant amino acid homology to the carboxyl-terminal portion of pancreastatin where the biologic activity resides.
There is an area within the pancreastatin region of human CGA and porcine pancreastatin with a 70% amino acid identity to the calcium-binding moiety of the E-F hand proteins such as parvalbumin and oncomodulin.
These data suggest that CGA and pancreastatin may both be members of a larger family of calcium-binding proteins."] 
17873892 Currently the full-text not available Gene expression and clonality analysis of the androgen receptor and phosphoglycerate kinase genes in polygonal cells and cuboidal cells in so-called pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma.
Modern pathology : an official journal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology, Inc ['The histogenesis of polygonal cells and cuboidal cells in so-called pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma remains unclear.
To understand their histogenesis, polygonal and cuboidal cells were obtained from pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma tissue using a laser capture microdissection technique.
Genomic DNA and total RNA were extracted and mRNA levels of cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, vimentin, surfactant protein B, thyroid transcription factor-1, synaptophysin, and chromogranin-A were analyzed by RT-PCR. DNA was digested with the methylation-sensitive enzymes HhaI or HpaII, followed by nested PCR of the androgen receptor and phosphoglycerate kinase genes.
Samples with polymorphisms were identified and a clonality analysis was performed.
The cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and surfactant protein B genes were clearly expressed in cuboidal cells, while the vimentin and synaptophysin genes were clearly expressed and the epithelial membrane antigen gene was weakly expressed in polygonal cells.
Thyroid transcription factor-1 was expressed in both cell types, while neither cell type expressed chromogranin-A. Clonality analysis showed the same loss of allele in both cell types (clonality ratio=0) or an unbalanced methylation pattern (clonality ratio<0.25).
Polygonal and cuboidal cells in pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma exhibited a uniform pattern of monoclonality, indicating that both cell types are highly likely to originate from a common precursor.
The differences in their morphological phenotype might result from their different mature status.'] 
12438162 Currently the full-text not available
The local chromaffin cell plasminogen/plasmin system and the regulation of catecholamine secretion.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences ['Chromaffin cells express components of the plasminogen/plasmin system, including its major activator, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), and high-affinity cellular receptors for plasminogen, which promote local concentration and activation of plasminogen at the cell surface.
Our studies suggest that plasmin participates in local neuroendocrine prohormone processing and that perturbation of this system profoundly affects the secretory characteristics of the cells.
These results suggest the presence of a local, functionally active, chromaffin cell plasminogen/plasmin system that plays a major role in the regulation of catecholamine release from catecholaminergic cells.'] 
3608978
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC553920/pdf/
The primary structure of human secretogranin I (chromogranin B): comparison with chromogranin A reveals homologous terminal domains and a large intervening variable region.
The EMBO journal ['We have determined and analyzed the primary structure of human secretogranin I (chromogranin B), a tyrosine-sulfated secretory protein found in a wide variety of peptidergic endocrine cells.
A 2.5-kb cDNA clone, hybridizing to an mRNA of similar length, was isolated from a cDNA library of human pheochromocytoma.
The identity of the clone was established by comparison of its deduced amino acid sequence with N-terminal and several internal secretogranin I sequences as well as by immunoprecipitation of the protein produced by in vitro transcription-translation of the cloned cDNA. Secretogranin I is a 657 amino acid long polypeptide of 76 kd and is preceded by a cleaved N-terminal signal peptide of 20 residues.
Comparison of the predicted amino acid sequence of human secretogranin I with that of bovine chromogranin A reveals significant homologies near the N termini and at the C termini.
The N-terminal homologous domains contain the only two cysteine residues of both proteins and form disulfide-stabilized loop structures.
The sequences between the homologous terminal domains in both proteins differ but are characterized by a remarkable hydrophilicity, an abundance of acidic amino acids and potential dibasic cleavage sites for the generation of smaller, perhaps hormone-like, peptides.'] 
3693350 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A-like proteins in the secretory granules of a protozoan, Paramecium tetraurelia.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['The ciliate protozoan Paramecium tetraurelia produces secretory granules (trichocysts) which release needle-like structures composed of small, acidic proteins.
Using antibodies against isolated chromogranin A (CGA) and against trichocyst proteins, we found cross-reactive proteins in chromaffin granules and trichocysts.
Four independently derived sera against isolated CGA stained bands of the Mr 15,000-25,000 family of trichocyst proteins on immunoblots.
A positive response was also obtained with antiserum against chemically synthesized peptides (PL26 and GE25) corresponding to defined regions of the CGA amino acid sequence.
In extracts of whole Paramecium, larger proteins (Mr 53,000 and 49,000) also reacted with antibodies against CGA and the related synthetic peptides.
These larger proteins may represent unprocessed precursors to the smaller proteins of mature trichocysts.
Antiserum to trichocysts recognized CGA in chromaffin granule lysates.
Further evidence of a Paramecium protein related to CGA was provided by hybridization of Paramecium mRNA with cloned cDNA for bovine CGA.
Our results suggest striking conservation in evolution of CGA-like proteins that may play some role, as yet unknown, in secretion.'] 
26229117 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4617605/pdf/ Viruses transfer the antiviral second messenger cGAMP between cells.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) detects cytosolic DNA during virus infection and induces an antiviral state.
cGAS signals by synthesis of a second messenger, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), which activates stimulator of interferon genes (STING).
We show that cGAMP is incorporated into viral particles, including lentivirus and herpesvirus virions, when these are produced in cGAS-expressing cells.
Virions transferred cGAMP to newly infected cells and triggered a STING-dependent antiviral program.
These effects were independent of exosomes and viral nucleic acids.
Our results reveal a way by which a signal for innate immunity is transferred between cells, potentially accelerating and broadening antiviral responses.
Moreover, infection of dendritic cells with cGAMP-loaded lentiviruses enhanced their activation.
Loading viral vectors with cGAMP therefore holds promise for vaccine development.'] 
3403722
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC303564/pdf/
Chromogranin A expression in normal and malignant human tissues.
The Journal of clinical investigation ['We used a recombinant cDNA probe for human chromogranin A to measure the expression of mRNA encoded by this gene in a variety of normal human tissues and tumor specimens using Northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis.
With few exceptions, the expression of chromogranin A mRNA appears to be restricted to normal tissues and tumors of neuroendocrine lineage.
However, we have detected mRNA expression of this gene in 1 of 14 cell lines and 2 of 13 tumor specimens of colon adenocarcinoma.
The finding of chromogranin
A expression in some colon carcinomas suggests that a previously unrecognized subgroup of these tumors has neuroendocrine features.
The detection of this subgroup demonstrates the potential for improving tumor classification through the use of techniques and reagents developed by recombinant DNA technology.'] 
3473966 Currently the full-text not available Chromogranin A: the primary structure deduced from cDNA clones reveals the presence of pairs of basic amino acids.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 
15182307 Currently the full-text not available Brain virus burden and indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase expression during lentiviral infection of rhesus monkey are concomitantly lowered by 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine.
The European journal of neuroscience ["Increased kynurenine pathway metabolism has been implicated in the aetiology of lentiviral encephalopathy.
Indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) initiates the increased production of kynurenine pathway metabolites like quinolinic acid (QUIN).
QUIN itself is elevated in AIDS-diseased monkey and human brain parenchyma and cerebrospinal fluid at levels excitotoxic for neurons in vitro.
This study investigates the cellular origin of IDO biosynthesis in the brain of rhesus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) and explores the effects of CNS-permeant antiretroviral treatment.
IDO transcript and protein were absent from the brain of non-infected and SIV-infected asymptomatic monkeys.
IDO biosynthesis was induced in the brain of monkeys exhibiting AIDS. Nodule and multinucleated
giant cell-forming macrophages were the main sources of IDO synthesis.
Treatment with the lipophilic 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine suppressed IDO expression in the brain of AIDS-diseased monkeys.
The effectiveness of this treatment was confirmed by the reduction of virus burden and SIV-induced perivascular infiltrates, mononuclear nodules and multinucleated giant cells.
Our data demonstrate that brain IDO biosynthesis is induced in a subset of monocyte-derived cells, depends on viral burden and is susceptible to antiretroviral treatment.
Thus, IDO induction is associated with reversible overt inflammatory events localized to areas of active viral replication in the SIV-infected brain."] 
27392950 Currently the full-text not available The Chemistry of the Noncanonical Cyclic Dinucleotide 2'3'-cGAMP and Its Analogs.
Handbook of experimental pharmacology [StringElement("The cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs) cyclic diguanosine monophosphate (c-diGMP) and cyclic diadenosine monophosphate (c-diAMP) with two canonical 3'→5' internucleotide linkages are ubiquitous second messenger molecules in bacteria, regulating a multitude of physiological processes.
Recently the noncanonical CDN cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (2'3'-cGAMP) featuring a mixed linkage, which consists of a 2'→5' and a 3'→5' internucleotide bond, has been identified as a signaling molecule in metazoan species in late 2012.
2'3'-cGAMP formation is biocatalyzed by cGAMP synthase (cGAS) upon sensing of cytosolic double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and functions as an endogenous inducer of innate immunity by directly binding to and activating the adaptor protein stimulator of interferon genes (STING).
Thereby 2'3'-cGAMP can stimulate interferon-β (INF-β) secretion, a major signaling pathway of host defense, which is independent of toll-like receptor (TLR) activation.
Medicinal chemistry of 2'3'-cGAMP and development of corresponding analogs are still in their infancy, and only a handful of structurally related compounds are available to the scientific community.
The aim of this chapter is to summarize synthetic approaches to prepare canonical and noncanonical endogenous CDNs including 2'3'-cGAMP.
Furthermore, we will describe syntheses of 2'3'-cGAMP analogs bearing modifications, which will facilitate further studies of the emerging biological functions of 2'3'-cGAMP and to identify additional receptor proteins.
Finally, we will review latest developments concerning 2'3'-cGAMP analogs with improved hydrolytic stability in cell cultures and in tissues, putatively qualifying for new therapeutic options on the basis of 2'3'-cGAMP signaling.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25525874 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4520319/pdf/
Apoptotic caspases suppress mtDNA-induced STING-mediated type I IFN production.
Cell ['Activated caspases are a hallmark of apoptosis induced by the intrinsic pathway, but they are dispensable for cell death and the apoptotic clearance of cells in\xa0vivo.
This has led to the suggestion that caspases are activated not just to kill but to prevent dying cells from triggering a host immune response.
Here, we show that the caspase cascade suppresses type I interferon (IFN) production by cells undergoing Bak/Bax-mediated apoptosis.
Bak and Bax trigger the release of mitochondrial DNA.
This is recognized by the cGAS/STING-dependent DNA sensing pathway, which initiates IFN production.
Activated caspases attenuate this response.
Pharmacological caspase inhibition or genetic deletion of caspase-9, Apaf-1, or caspase-3/7 causes dying cells to secrete IFN-β. In\xa0vivo, this precipitates an elevation in IFN-β levels and consequent hematopoietic stem cell dysfunction, which is corrected by loss of Bak and Bax.
Thus, the apoptotic caspase cascade functions to render mitochondrial apoptosis immunologically silent.'] 
27500737 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4976988/pdf/
The Mechanism for Type I Interferon Induction by Mycobacterium tuberculosis is Bacterial Strain-Dependent.
PLoS pathogens ['Type I interferons (including IFNαβ) are innate cytokines that may contribute to pathogenesis during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection.
To induce IFNβ, Mtb must gain access to the host cytosol and trigger stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling.
A recently proposed model suggests that Mtb triggers STING signaling through bacterial DNA binding cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) in the cytosol.
The aim of this study was to test the generalizability of this model using phylogenetically distinct strains of the Mtb complex (MTBC).
We infected bone marrow derived macrophages with strains from MTBC Lineages 2, 4 and 6.
We found that the Lineage 6 strain induced less IFNβ, and that the Lineage 2 strain induced more IFNβ, than the Lineage 4 strain.
The strains did not differ in their access to the host cytosol and IFNβ induction by each strain required both STING and cGAS. We also found that the three strains shed similar amounts of bacterial DNA.
Interestingly, we found that the Lineage 6 strain was associated with less mitochondrial stress and less mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in the cytosol compared with the Lineage 4 strain.
Treating macrophages with a mitochondria-specific antioxidant reduced cytosolic mtDNA and inhibited IFNβ induction by the Lineage 2 and 4 strains.
We also found that the Lineage 2 strain did not induce more mitochondrial stress than the Lineage 4 strain, suggesting that additional pathways contribute to higher IFNβ induction.
These results indicate that the mechanism for IFNβ by Mtb is more complex than the established model suggests.
We show that mitochondrial dynamics and mtDNA contribute to IFNβ induction by Mtb.
Moreover, we show that the contribution of mtDNA to the IFNβ response varies by MTBC strain and that additional mechanisms exist for Mtb to induce IFNβ.'] 
9269895 Currently the full-text not available Characterization of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) action on a mouse neuroblastoma cell line, NB41, by introduction of an antisense PDGF beta-receptor RNA. Cell growth & differentiation : the molecular biology journal of the American Association for Cancer Research ['We have shown previously that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has trophic effects on dopaminergic neurons in vitro.
We now examined a mouse neuroblastoma cell line, NB41, for its response to PDGF and studied their phenotypic characteristics following introduction of an antisense PDGF beta-receptor RNA. NB41 cells produce both PDGF-AA and -BB; however, they carry only PDGF beta-receptors, responding to BB but not to AA. Culturing the cells with PDGF-BB induced mRNA for c-fos and PDGF-beta receptor as well as that of neuron-specific enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase.
In contrast, mRNA of chromogranin A, which is produced by chromaffin cells, decreased.
Introduction of an antisense PDGF beta-receptor RNA in NB41 cells completely suppressed neurite extension and cell growth.
We compared the PDGF-beta receptor sense and antisense clones for their survival.
Following serum withdrawal, NB41 cells showed a DNA ladder, which by an addition of the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OHDA), resulted in a further enhancement of the DNA ladder.
The addition of PDGF-BB prior to 6-OHDA rescued cells from undergoing apoptosis, seen as a reduction of the DNA ladder.
The antisense clone, regardless of the presence of PDGF-BB in the culture, showed a pronounced DNA ladder after serum withdrawal, which was further enhanced by the addition of 6-OHDA.'] 
23929945 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3860819/pdf/
Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase is an innate immune sensor of HIV and other retroviruses.
Science (New York, N.Y.) ['Retroviruses, including HIV, can activate innate immune responses, but the host sensors for retroviruses are largely unknown.
Here we show that HIV infection activates cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) to produce cGAMP, which binds to and activates the adaptor protein STING to induce type I interferons and other cytokines.
Inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase, but not integrase, abrogated interferon-β induction by the virus, suggesting that the reverse-transcribed HIV DNA triggers the innate immune response.
Knockout or knockdown of cGAS in mouse or human cell lines blocked cytokine induction by HIV, murine leukemia virus, and simian immunodeficiency virus.
These results indicate that cGAS is an innate immune sensor of HIV and other retroviruses.'] 
11081197 Currently the full-text not available Distribution and regulation of proconvertases PC1 and PC2 in human pituitary adenomas.
Pituitary ['Pituitary adenomas are members of the family of neuroendocrine cells and tumors which have secretory granules containing chromogranins/secretogranins and other proteins.
Pituitary adenomas express the neuroendocrine specific proconvertases PC1 (also known as PC3) and PC2, which are important for the proteolytic processing of chromogranins/secretogranins molecules.
We examined the distribution of PC1 and PC2 in primary cultures of 20 pituitary adenomas and analyzed the regulation of the proconvertase mRNAs and proteins by various secretagogues including hypothalamic hormones and phorbol ester to determine the role of PC1 and PC2 in CgA processing in pituitary adenomas.
Although PC2 was present in all adenomas, there was a differential distribution of PC1 with PRL adenomas expressing lower levels of PC1 compared to other adenoma types by RT-PCR analysis, in situ hybridization and immunostaining.
Treatment of primary cultures of pituitary adenomas with phorbol 12-myristrate 13-acetate (PMA) resulted in an increase in pancreastatin (PST)
secretion in most pituitary adenomas and increased PC1 mRNA and protein expression in gonadotroph adenomas, but not in other types of adenomas.
Analysis of a human pituitary adenoma cell line, immortalized by recombinant defective adenovirus (HP75), which expressed chromogranin A, FSH, PC1 and PC2 showed that PST was secreted by these immortalized cells.
Treatment with TGF beta 1 resulted in an increase in PST secretion and in PC1 mRNA and protein.
These results indicate that a) there is a differential distribution of PC1 in human pituitary adenomas with PRL adenomas expressing very little PC1 mRNA and protein and b) that PC1 expression in gonadotropin hormone-producing adenomas is regulated by PMA and TGF beta 1.
These findings support the observation that chromogranin A is a substrate for the endoproteinase PC1 in human pituitary adenoma cells.'] 
25479797 Currently the full-text not available Potential therapeutic targets in the process of nucleic acid recognition: opportunities and challenges.
Trends in pharmacological sciences ['Nucleic acid recognition or sensing (NAS) is accepted as a fundamental function in the host defense against self or foreign genetic elements.
Abnormal recognition or interpretation of microbial-origin pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) or damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) can lead to infections or autoimmune diseases (ADs).
Modulation of the NAS process represents a path toward the development of novel vaccines or drugs, through targets such as myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 3 and 6 in Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated signaling pathways.
DNA helicases can be targeted by arresting replication and the breakage of DNA double strands.
Stimulator of interferon (IFN) genes (STING) may act as a therapeutic target by upregulation of the STING-dependent pathway or vaccination with cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP)
synthase (cGAS)-catalyzed reaction products.
Several challenges are faced before and during clinical therapy.
NAS can be an important breakthrough for molecular targets and therapies.
The specificity of drug delivery, potential of long-term genotoxicity, risk of tumorigenesis, duration of drug efficacy, and drug metabolism should be further validated.'] 
25753787 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4774549/pdf/
Ubiquitination in the antiviral immune response.
Virology [
"Ubiquitination has long been known to regulate fundamental cellular processes through the induction of proteasomal degradation of target proteins.
More recently, 'atypical' non-degradative types of polyubiquitin chains have been appreciated as important regulatory moieties by modulating the activity or subcellular localization of key signaling proteins.
Intriguingly, many of these non-degradative types of ubiquitination regulate the innate sensing pathways initiated by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), ultimately coordinating an effective antiviral immune response.
Here we discuss recent advances in understanding the functional roles of degradative and atypical types of ubiquitination in innate immunity to viral infections, with a specific focus on the signaling pathways triggered by RIG-I-like receptors, Toll-like receptors, and the intracellular viral DNA sensor cGAS."] 
11213840 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical analysis of the proliferative activity of neuroendocrine tumors from various organs.
Are there indications for a neuroendocrine tumor-carcinoma sequence?
Virchows Archiv : an international journal of pathology ['Small-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs) of the prostate are believed not to derive from benign orthotopic NE epithelial cells.
Instead, an origin from a putative stem cell is actually the most favored concept.
Whether this concept can also be applied to neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of other organs, especially whether there are indications for well-differentiated NET-NEC sequence, is subject of the present study.
A double-labeling technique for the proliferation marker MIB-1 and the NE markers chromogranin
A (ChrA) and synaptophysin (SNP) was used for the immunohistochemical analysis of 45 well-differentiated NETs, 16 well-differentiated (low-grade) NECs, and 63 high-grade NECs of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, appendix, colon, lung, prostate, and urinary bladder.
The lowest proliferative activity was found in NETs (0.85% of tumor cells), and the highest activity was found in high-grade NECs (72.5%).
The expression of ChrA was highest in NETs and lowest in high-grade NECs.
None of the NETs and only sporadic cells in low-grade NECs showed double labeling (up to 0.05%).
Up to 50% of the tumor cells in high-grade NECs were positive for MIB-1 and SNP.
The percentage of double-labeled cells ranged between 0.9 and 39.6 (mean 9.7).
No double-labeled cells were found in the normal epithelium adjacent to the tumors.
Transitions from NET to NEC could not be observed.
NETs and low-grade NECs differ in their proliferative activity from high-grade NECs, suggesting that they may arise from different precursor cell populations.'] 
2305832 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1877399/pdf/
Chromogranin A and B gene expression in carcinomas of the breast.
Correlation of immunocytochemical, immunoblot, and hybridization analyses.
The American journal of pathology ['Chromogranins (Cg) are regarded as specific neuroendocrine (NE) markers in cells and tumors.
Expression of CgA and CgB genes has been demonstrated by correlative immunocytochemical, immunoblotting, in situ hybridization, and Northern blot procedures in seven argyrophilic breast carcinomas, while eight control cases of ductal carcinomas, not otherwise specified, were negative.
A high degree of correlation was observed between the various techniques revealing CgA and/or CgB gene expression at different levels; minor discrepancies might be related to tumor heterogeneity or to technical factors.
The present study, confirming previous investigations, establishes NE differentiation in a group of human breast cancers.
The identification of this type of tumors, especially by testing chromogranin(s) production, appears to be of both biologic and clinical interest.'] 
1704442 Currently the full-text not available Biological and clinicopathological significance of endocrine differentiation of gastric adenocarcinoma evaluated by double immunohistochemical labeling for chromogranin A and bromodeoxyuridine.
Japanese journal of clinical oncology ['To elucidate the biological and clinicopathological significance of endocrine differentiation in gastric adenocarcinoma, an immunohistochemical study was made of 127 cases with ascertained five-year survivals, and of 45 recent cases of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling.
Endocrine differentiated cancer cells were demonstrated in 37 out of the 127 cases (29.1%) evaluated by chromogranin A (CGA) immunoreactivity, and all CGA-positive tumors were classified as advanced gastric cancer.
Analysis of retrospective five-year survival rates revealed the adenocarcinomas with endocrine differentiation to have had significantly longer survival times than those without endocrine immunoreactivity in stage II, but not in stages III or IV. Double immunolabeling for CGA and BrdU in the other 45 adenocarcinoma cases showed only a single CGA-positive cancer cell with BrdU incorporation among a total of 454 CGA-positive cells examined.
There was no significant difference between the labeling indices of the general cancer population and the cancer cells adjacent to CGA-positive cells.
In conclusion, endocrine differentiation of gastric cancer is not uncommon, particularly in advancing cancer, and it would be a useful marker for a better prognosis in stage
II. Probably, endocrine differentiated cancer cells are almost dormant with virtually no DNA synthesizing activity, and their paracrine effect is most unlikely to work in vivo.'] 
10631115 Currently the full-text not available Impaired feedback of gastric functions in carboxypeptidase E-deficient mice.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Carboxypeptidase E deficiency as seen in the fat/fat mice is associated with reduced antral somatostatin content but tripling of the progastrin product.
Thus, fat/fat mice are able to maintain normal tissue concentrations of bioactive alpha-amidated gastrin in spite of grossly attenuated progastrin processing.
After induction of achlorhydria, however, neither the amount of alpha-amidated gastrin nor the total progastrin product increased in the fat/fat mice.
This is contrary to what is seen in wild-type mice.
Furthermore, the synthesis of antral somatostatin and fundic chromogranin A is also abnormal.
Hence the results suggest a breakdown in the feedback loop that regulates gastric acid secretion.'] 
12187268 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine expression in node positive prostate cancer: correlation with systemic progression and patient survival.
The Journal of urology [StringElement('Neuroendocrine cells are ubiquitous but uncommon in benign and neoplastic prostate epithelium, and they are considered important for regulating cell growth and differentiation.
The predictive value of neuroendocrine immunoreactivity for patient outcome after radical prostatectomy is uncertain.
In this study we determined the expression of 2 important neuroendocrine markers, chromogranin and serotonin, in benign epithelium, primary prostate cancer and lymph node metastases, and correlated cellular expression with patient outcome.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('We studied 196 patients with node positive prostate adenocarcinoma who underwent bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy and radical prostatectomy at Mayo Clinic between 1987 and 1992.
Mean followup was 6.8 years (range 0.3 to 11).
The cellular expression of chromogranin and serotonin in matched samples of benign tissue, primary prostate cancer and lymph node metastases from the same patients was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining using commercially available monoclonal antibodies.
Results were correlated with patient age, pathological findings (Gleason score, DNA ploidy and cancer volume) and patient outcome, including clinical progression, cancer specific and all cause survival.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIALS AND METHODS'}), StringElement('Chromogranin immunoreactivity was greater in benign prostatic epithelium and primary cancer cases (99% each) than in those of lymph node metastases (37.5%) (pairwise comparisons with metastases p <0.001).
The mean incidence of immunoreactive cells in benign epithelium, primary cancer and metastases was 6% (median 5%), 6% (median 3%) and 2.2% (median 0%), respectively.
Serotonin immunoreactivity was greatest in benign prostate epithelium cases (98.5%) with less in primary cancer (95%) and lymph node metastases (21.5%) (pairwise comparisons p <0.001).
The mean incidence of immunoreactive cells in benign epithelium, primary cancer and metastases was 2.2% (median 3%), 2.4% (median 2%) and 0.4% (median 0%), respectively.
Chromogranin expression was invariably greater than that of serotonin for all 3 diagnostic categories (p <0.0001).
There was a marginally significant positive trend in the level of chromogranin expression in benign prostatic epithelium and systemic progression (p = 0.05) but no significant association with cancer specific or all cause survival (p >0.1).
No significant association was observed of chromogranin expression in primary cancer or lymph node metastases with any patient outcomes (p >0.1).
There was a significant association of the level of serotonin expression in benign prostatic epithelium with cancer specific survival (p = 0.03) but no significant association with systemic progression or all cause survival (p > 0.1).
There were positive trends in the association of serotonin immunoreactivity in primary cancer with systemic progression (p = 0.09) and cancer specific survival (p = 0.05) but not with all cause survival (p >0.1).
No significant association was observed of serotonin expression in lymph node metastases with any patient outcomes (p >0.1).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Benign prostatic epithelium and primary prostate cancer express a significantly greater number of chromogranin and serotonin immunoreactive cells than lymph node metastases, suggesting that decreased expression of neuroendocrine markers is involved in cancer progression.
However, neuroendocrine expression was marginally useful for predicting the outcome in patients with node positive prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
11198271 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical localization of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in malignant pancreatic endocrine tumors.
Cancer detection and prevention ['Differentiation of benign from malignant pancreatic endocrine tumors by existing clinical, biochemical, histologic, and cytologic criteria is difficult.
We immunohistochemically localized pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI) in 28 pancreatic endocrine tumors (13 benign, 15 malignant).
PSTI-immunoreactive cells were detected in nine endocrine tumors.
Immunoreactivity in these tumors was detected in nearly all tumor cells in five cases, scattered cells in two cases, and a few cells in two cases.
All positive cases were malignant, and eight were equal to or larger than 10 cm.
Serum concentrations of PSTI were markedly elevated in the two patients so tested.
PSTI may be a specific immunohistochemical marker for malignant pancreatic endocrine tumors.'] 
27764250 Currently the full-text not available Histone H2B-IFI16 Recognition of Nuclear Herpesviral Genome Induces Cytoplasmic Interferon-β Responses.
PLoS pathogens [StringElement("IFI16 (gamma-interferon-inducible protein 16), a predominantly nuclear protein involved in transcriptional regulation, also functions as an innate immune response DNA sensor and induces the IL-1β and antiviral type-1 interferon-β (IFN-β) cytokines.
We have shown that IFI16, in association with BRCA1, functions as a sequence independent nuclear sensor of episomal dsDNA genomes of KSHV, EBV and HSV-1.
Recognition of these herpesvirus genomes resulted in IFI16 acetylation, BRCA1-IFI16-ASC-procaspase-1 inflammasome formation, cytoplasmic translocation, and IL-1β generation.
Acetylated IFI16 also interacted with cytoplasmic STING and induced IFN-β.
However, the identity of IFI16 associated nuclear proteins involved in STING activation and the mechanism is not known.
Mass spectrometry of proteins precipitated by anti-IFI16 antibodies from uninfected endothelial cell nuclear lysate revealed that histone H2B interacts with IFI16.
Single and double proximity ligation microscopy, immunoprecipitation, EdU-genome labeled virus infection, and chromatin immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that H2B is associated with IFI16 and BRCA1 in the nucleus in physiological conditions.
De novo KSHV and HSV-1 infection as well as latent KSHV and EBV infection induces the cytoplasmic distribution of H2B-IFI16, H2B-BRCA1 and IFI16-ASC complexes.
Vaccinia virus (dsDNA) cytoplasmic replication didn't induce the redistribution of nuclear H2B-IFI16 or H2B into the cytoplasm.
H2B is critical in KSHV and HSV-1 genome recognition by IFI16 during de novo infection.
Viral genome sensing by IFI16-H2B-BRCA1 leads to BRCA1 dependent recruitment of p300, and acetylation of H2B and IFI16.
BRCA1 knockdown or inhibition of p300 abrogated the acetylation of H2B-IFI16 or H2B. Ran-GTP protein mediated the translocation of acetylated H2B and IFI16 to the cytoplasm along with BRCA1 that is independent of IFI16-ASC inflammasome.
ASC knockdown didn't affect the acetylation of H2B, its cytoplasmic transportation, and the association of STING with IFI16 and H2B during KSHV infection.
Absence of H2B didn't affect IFI16-ASC association and cytoplasmic distribution and thus demonstrating that IFI16-H2B complex is independent of IFI16-ASC-procaspase-1-inflammasome complex formed during infection.
The H2B-IFI16-BRCA1 complex interacted with cGAS and STING in the cytoplasm leading to TBK1 and IRF3 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation of pIRF3 and IFN-β production.
Silencing of H2B, cGAS and STING inhibited IFN-β induction but not IL-1β secretion, and cGAMP activity is significantly reduced by H2B and IFI16 knockdown during infection.
Silencing of ASC inhibited IL-1β secretion but not IFN-β secretion during de novo KSHV and HSV-1 infection.
These studies identify H2B as an innate nuclear sensor mediating a novel extra chromosomal function, and reveal that two IFI16 complexes mediate KSHV and HSV-1 genome recognition responses, with recognition by the IFI16-BRCA1-H2B complex resulting in IFN-β responses and recognition by IFI16-BRCA1 resulting in inflammasome responses."
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26039443 Currently the full-text not available Innate immune recognition of mtDNA--an undercover signal?
Cell metabolism ['
In addition to their roles in cellular metabolism and apoptosis, mitochondria function as signaling platforms in the innate immune response.
In Nature, West et\xa0al.
(2015) demonstrate that mitochondrial stress triggers a type I interferon response and confers viral resistance via release of mtDNA and activation of the cGAS-STING pathway.'] 
25816774 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4393365/pdf/ Nucleic acid recognition orchestrates the anti-viral response to retroviruses.
Cell host & microbe ['Intrinsic restriction factors and viral nucleic acid sensors are important for the anti-viral response.
Here, we show how upstream sensing of retroviral reverse transcripts integrates with the downstream effector APOBEC3, an IFN-induced cytidine deaminase that introduces lethal mutations during retroviral reverse transcription.
Using a murine leukemia virus (MLV) variant with an unstable capsid that induces a strong IFNβ antiviral response, we identify three sensors, IFI203, DDX41, and cGAS, required for MLV nucleic acid recognition.
These sensors then signal using the adaptor STING, leading to increased production of IFNβ and other targets downstream of the transcription factor IRF3.
Using knockout and mutant mice, we show that APOBEC3 limits the levels of reverse transcripts that trigger cytosolic sensing, and that nucleic acid sensing in vivo increases expression of IFN-regulated restriction factors like APOBEC3 that in turn reduce viral load.
These studies underscore the importance of the multiple layers of protection afforded by host factors.'] 
27863906 Currently the full-text not available Post-translational Control of Intracellular Pathogen Sensing Pathways.
Trends in immunology [StringElement("Mammalian cells recognize virus-derived nucleic acids using a defined set of intracellular sensors including the DNA sensors cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) and interferon gamma (IFNγ)-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) as well as viral RNA receptors of the retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor (RLR) family.
Following innate immune recognition, these sensors launch an immune response that is characterized by the transcriptional upregulation of many antiviral molecules, including proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and IFN-stimulated genes.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the signal transduction initiated by these sensors is sophisticatedly regulated by post-translational modifications (PTMs) resulting in a robust yet 'tunable' cytokine response to maintain immune homeostasis.
Here we summarize recent advances in our understanding of how PTMs and regulatory enzymes control the signaling activity of RLRs, cGAS, and IFI16 as well as their proximal adaptor proteins.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
11745681 Currently the full-text not available A model of pulmonary adenocarcinoma in transgenic mice expressing the simian virus 40 T antigen driven by the rat Calbindin-D9K (CaBP9K) promoter.
The Journal of pathology ['Lung cancer is the most frequent cause of cancer deaths.
Its origin and development remain poorly understood, partly because of the lack of pertinent animal models.
This study produced transgenic mice expressing the simian virus (SV) 40 T antigen (Tag) driven by a 1011 base-pair DNA fragment of the rat Calbindin-D9K (CaBP9K) promoter.
All transgenic animals developed multifocal pulmonary tumours with pathological and ultrastructural features consistent with adenocarcinomas.
Using immunohistochemistry, northern blot or western blot, tumours were found to express the transcription factor TTF-1, as well as specific markers of the peripheral airway Clara cells (CC10) and alveolar type II cells (surfactant proteins A, B, C, and D).
This model, with its similarities to human adenocarcinoma, should be useful not only for addressing the mechanisms underlying the development and progression of lung cancer, but also for testing new therapeutic approaches.'] 
10486565
Currently the full-text not available Genes induced by growth arrest in a pancreatic beta cell line: identification by analysis of cDNA arrays.
FEBS letters ['Pancreatic beta cell lines are a potentially attractive source of material for cell therapy of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
However, induction of proliferation in post-mitotic, differentiated beta cells is likely to affect the expression of multiple genes associated with cell function, resulting in dedifferentiation.
We have developed a murine beta cell line by conditional transformation with the SV40 T antigen oncoprotein.
These cells can undergo reversible induction of proliferation and growth arrest.
Here we utilized this model to identify differences in gene expression between proliferating and quiescent beta cells, by analyzing known beta cell genes and differentially secreted proteins, as well as by a systematic survey of a mouse cDNA array.
Our findings demonstrate that growth arrest stimulates expression of the insulin gene and genes encoding components of the insulin secretory vesicles.
Screening of the cDNA array revealed the activation of multiple genes following growth arrest, many of them novel genes which may be related to beta cell function.
Characterization of these genes is likely to contribute to our understanding of beta cell function and the ability to employ beta cell lines in cell therapy of diabetes.'] 
26355209 Currently the full-text not available Inside Job:
Viruses Transfer cGAMP between Cells.
Cell host & microbe ['The DNA sensor, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), is essential for the detection of viral infection.
In a recent issue of Science, two studies, Bridgeman et al.
(2015) and Gentili et al.
(2015), report a novel mechanism for propagating an antiviral signal between cells, based on the transfer of the cGAS enzymatic product, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), in viral particles.'] 
21989450 Currently the full-text not available Synchronous primary lung cancers: a multidisciplinary approach in diagnosis.
Tumori [StringElement('BACKGROUND.
For patients with two or more primary cancers a correct diagnosis is critically important because prognosis and treatment vary considerably between multiple primary cancers and metastatic disease.'
, attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement("Two bilateral synchronous primary lung malignancies of different histological types were diagnosed and immunohistochemically confirmed in a 60-year-old woman.
In biopsy specimens of the right lung pure squamous cell carcinoma was detected (stage IIIa).
The tumor expressed AE1/AE3, cytokeratin 5 and 34βE12.
In biopsy specimens of the left lung small cell carcinoma was detected (stage IIIa).
The small cells expressed synaptophysin, chromogranin A and CD56.
DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissue of both tumors.
Exons 5-9 of the TP53 gene were examined for genetic mutations by polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing analysis.
Direct sequencing of DNA isolated from the small cell carcinoma revealed a TGC to TTC mutation at codon 404 of TP53 exon 5.
In DNA isolated from the squamous cell carcinoma no TP53 mutation was found.
The tumors' different response to chemotherapy also suggested that they belonged to different histological types.
The patient lived 24 months after the diagnosis, which is more typical for stage III than for stage IV lung carcinoma.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'CASE REPORT'}), StringElement('Discrimination of synchronous primary lung cancers from intrapulmonary metastases based only on clinical findings can be very difficult.
Multidisciplinary diagnostic evaluation is therefore very helpful in cases like this, because a correct diagnosis will determine the best treatment for the patient and consequently a better prognosis.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
9273973 Currently the full-text not available Atypical carcinoid tumor of the larynx: an immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric analysis.
Ultrastructural pathology ['The clinicopathologic features, including a detailed immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric analysis, are described in three cases of atypical carcinoid tumor of the larynx.
All patients had metastatic disease within cervical lymph nodes at presentation and eventually developed distant metastases.
Special stains revealed focal intracytoplasmic mucin accumulation, and immunohistochemistry showed the tumors to be positive for CAM 5.2, CEA, chromogranin A, and calcitonin.
In two cases, double-staining techniques revealed occasional cells that stained for both mucin and chromogranin A.
The histochemical and immunohistochemical findings in these two cases were confirmed at the ultrastructural level, with most tumor cells containing many neurosecretory granules.
Smaller numbers of cells contained mucin vacuoles and, in occasional cells, both mucin and neuroendocrine granules were identified.
The three tumors exhibited positive staining with D07 (anti-p53), and flow cytometric analysis revealed DNA aneuploidy and polyploidy.
The double-staining and ultrastructural features indicate that laryngeal atypical carcinoid qualifies for the designation of true amphicrine carcinoma.
Further study is necessary to determine whether mutation of the p53 gene is important in the evolution of laryngeal neuroendocrine tumors and whether DNA aneuploidy or polyploidy identifies a subset of these tumors with a poor prognosis.'] 
18617341 Currently the full-text not available Primary moderately differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (atypical carcinoid) of the larynx: A case report with immunohistochemical and molecular study.
Auris, nasus, larynx ['Neuroendocrine tumours are the second most common laryngeal neoplasms, following squamous carcinoma.
In this paper, we report the case of a moderately differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma NEC (atypical carcinoid) of the larynx in a heavy smoker 67-year-old woman, with a history of hoarseness, dysphagia and dyspnea.
The lesion was biopsied and microscopic examination revealed moderately differentiated NEC; thus the patient underwent supraglottic laryngectomy with lymphadenectomy.
Here, we emphasized the morphological criteria for a correct pathological diagnosis.
Moreover, because it has been demonstrated that many neuroendocrine neoplasms and malignant lesions of the larynx can be related to human papilloma virus (HPV), for the first time, we probed to verify if laryngeal neuroendocrine carcinoma could be due to an HPV infection by using polymerase chain reaction amplification (PCR) of tumoural DNA. On immunohistochemical analysis, the lesion characteristically revealed both neuroendocrine and epithelial differentiation with diffuse staining for chromogranin A, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and overexpression of p53 protein.
PCR of NEC DNA did not show any signal for HPV DNA.
Thus, this neoplasm is not due to an HPV infection, but a mutation of p53 gene which could cause immunohistochemical overexpression of p53 protein.'] 
24406862
Currently the full-text not available Merkel cell carcinoma of lymph node with unknown primary has a significantly lower association with Merkel cell polyomavirus than its cutaneous counterpart.
Modern pathology : an official journal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology, Inc ["Rare cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been encountered in lymph nodes with unknown extranodal primary, which exhibit similar morphologic and immunophenotypic features to those in primary cutaneous Merkel cell carcinomas.
However, it is uncertain whether the nodal Merkel cell carcinoma is a primary tumor of the lymph node or represents a metastasis from an occult or regressed extranodal lesion.
To establish an accurate diagnosis of the nodal Merkel cell carcinoma can be challenging because of significant morphologic mimics, including lymphoblastic lymphoma and metastatic small cell carcinoma.
Moreover, there is no consensus for a diagnostic term, and many different terms have been used, which can be confusing and may not fully reflect the nature of nodal Merkel cell carcinoma.
In this study, we investigated the detailed clinicopathologic features of 22 nodal Merkel cell carcinomas, with comparison to 763 primary cutaneous cases retrieved from the literature.
Overall, the nodal and cutaneous Merkel cell carcinomas shared similar clinical presentations, morphologic spectrum, and immunophenotype; both were mostly seen in elderly male with a typical neuroendocrine morphology.
Most of cases expressed CK20, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A; and PAX5 and TdT were also positive in majority of cases.
However, nodal Merkel cell carcinomas had a significantly lower association with Merkel cell polyomavirus than cutaneous cases (31% vs 76%, P=0.001).
Therefore, these two entities may arise from overlapping but not identical biological pathways.
We also recommend the use of the diagnostic term 'Merkel cell carcinoma of lymph node' to replace many other names used."] 
8364910 Currently the full-text not available IA-1, a new marker for neuroendocrine differentiation in human lung cancer cell lines.
Cancer research ['IA-1 is a recently isolated novel complementary DNA which encodes a protein of 510 amino acids that contains both a zinc finger DNA-binding domain and a putative prohormone domain.
mRNA expression of IA-1 has been found thus far only in tumors of neuroendocrine origin.
In this report we describe the expression of IA-1 mRNA in a panel of 64 human lung cancer cell lines.
IA-1 mRNA was detected by Northern blot analysis in 97% (30 of 31) of small cell lung cancer cell lines.
In contrast, IA-1 mRNA was detected in only 13% (4 of 30) of non-small cell lung cancer cell lines.
Nine of the 30 (30%) expressed either chromogranin A mRNA or produced L-dopa decarboxylase.
Four of these 9 (44%) had detectable levels of IA-1 mRNA.
In most of the lung cancer cell lines examined, IA-1 showed high concordance with the other neuroendocrine markers, L-dopa decarboxylase, and chromogranin A. The one exception was a variant small cell lung cancer cell line which expressed low or nondetectable levels of L-dopa decarboxylase.
IA-1 is a candidate marker of neuroendocrine differentiation of human lung tumors.'] 
10718213 Currently the full-text not available Correlative immunohistochemical and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis of somatostatin receptor type 2 in neuroendocrine tumors of the lung.
Diagnostic molecular pathology : the American journal of surgical pathology, part B ['Somatostatin receptors type 2 (sst2) have been frequently detected in neuroendocrine tumors and bind somatostatin analogues, such as octreotide, with high affinity.
Receptor autoradiography, specific mRNA detection and, more recently, antisst2 polyclonal antibodies are currently employed to reveal sst2.
The aim of the present study was to investigate by three different techniques the presence of sst2 in a series of 26 neuroendocrine tumors of the lung in which fresh frozen tissue and paraffin sections were available.
It was possible, therefore, to compare, in individual cases, RNA analysis studied by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization (ISH), and immunohistochemistry.
A series of 20 nonneuroendocrine lung carcinoma samples served as controls.
RT-PCR was positive for sst2 in 22 of 26 samples, including 15 of 15 typical carcinoids, 5 of 6 atypical carcinoids, and 2 of 5 small-cell carcinomas.
The sst2 mRNA signal obtained by RT-PCR was strong in the majority (87%) of typical carcinoids and of variable intensity in atypical carcinoids and small-cell carcinomas.
A weakly positive signal was observed in 5 of 20 control samples.
In immunohistochemistry, two different antibodies (anti-sst2) were employed, including a monoclonal antibody, generated in the Department of Pathology, University of Turin.
In the majority of samples a good correlation between sst2 mRNA (as detected by RT-PCR) and sst2 protein expression (as detected by immunohistochemistry) was observed.
However, one atypical carcinoid and one small-cell carcinoma had focal immunostaining but no RT-PCR signal.
ISH performed in selected samples paralleled the results obtained with the other techniques.
A low sst2 expression was associated with high grade neuroendocrine tumors and with aggressive behavior.
It is concluded that 1) neuroendocrine tumors of the lung express sst2, and there is a correlation between the mRNA amount and the degree of differentiation; 2) immunohistochemistry and ISH are reliable tools to demonstrate sst2 in these tumors; and 3) sst2 identification in tissue sections may provide information on the diagnostic or therapeutic usefulness of somatostatin analogues in individual patients with neuroendocrine tumors.'] 
9568077 Currently the full-text not available Cloning of a human cancer cell line (NSCLC-N6) and comparative study of the clones in vitro.
Anticancer research ['Non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) is a particularly serious disease because of its chemoresistance to current treatments.
To investigate the nature of his generally innate resistance, we cloned an established cell line (NSCLC-N6) derived from a non-small cell bronchopulmonary carcinoma.
Four cell subpopulations (C15, C65, C92 and C98) were isolated from the mother line.
These four clones were studied in comparison with each other for cell doubling time in vitro, ploidy, chemosensitivity in vitro, cytogenetic, expression of the oncogene erb-B2 and other tumor markers (Kr, CEA and Chr A).
Each clone shows a distinct biologic pattern for various biological parameters.
Our results indicated hat cell doubling time (in vitro) increased when the hyperploid population was prevailing.
The clones differ in their chemosensitivity to therapeutic agents.
This cellular diversity might help to explain why these tumors are chemoresistant.
This heterogeneity within NSCLC tumors should be taken into consideration in the choice of treatment.'] 
25686823 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4627296/pdf/ SNAI2/Slug gene is silenced in prostate cancer and regulates neuroendocrine differentiation, metastasis-suppressor and pluripotency gene expression.
Oncotarget ['Prostate Cancer (PCa)-related deaths are mostly due to metastasization of poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas often endowed with neuroendocrine differentiation (NED) areas.
The SNAI2/Slug gene is a major regulator of cell migration and tumor metastasization.
We here assessed its biological significance in NED, and metastatic potential of PCa.
SNAI2 expression was down-regulated in most PCa epithelia, in association with gene promoter methylation, except for cell clusters forming: a. the expansion/invasion front of high-grade PCa, b. NED areas, or c. lymph node metastasis.
Knockdown of SNAI2 in PC3 cells down-regulated the expression of neural-tissue-associated adhesion molecules, Neural-Cadherin, Neural-Cadherin-2, Neuronal-Cell-Adhesion-Molecule, and of the NED marker Neuron-Specific Enolase, whereas it abolished Chromogranin-A expression.
The metastasis-suppressor genes, Nm23-H1 and KISS1, were up-regulated, while the pluripotency genes SOX2, NOTCH1, CD44v6, WWTR1/TAZ and YAP1 were dramatically down-regulated.
Over-expression of SNAI2 in DU145 cells substantiated its ability to regulate metastasis-suppressor, NED and pluripotency genes.
In PCa and lymph node metastasis, expression of SOX2 and NOTCH1 was highly related to that of SNAI2.In conclusion, I. SNAI2 silencing in PCa may turn-off the expression of NED markers and pluripotency genes, while turning-on that of specific metastasis-suppressors, II. SNAI2 expression in selected PCa cells, by regulating their self-renewal, NED and metastatic potential, endows them with highly malignant properties.
SNAI2 may thus constitute a key target for modern approaches to PCa progression.'] 
11192574 Currently the full-text not available Characterization of chromogranins in the frog Rana ridibunda.
Structure, expression, and functional implications.
Advances in experimental medicine and biology 
27751656 Currently the full-text not available Molecular requirements for sensing of intracellular microbial nucleic acids by the innate immune system.
Cytokine [StringElement("Nucleic acids sensors of the innate immune system recognize various RNA and DNA structures during infection to induce transcription of interferon and pro-inflammatory cytokines and activation of inflammasomes.
Cytosolic RNA is recognized by RIG-I and MDA5, while intracellular DNA is sensed among others by cGAS, AIM2, IFI16 and RNA polymerase III.
The diversity of nucleic acid species produced during infection in the cytosol and nucleus and the limited chemical differences between self and non-self nucleic acids challenge the host's innate pattern recognition system to ensure reliable sensing while avoiding immune activation by self nucleic acids.
We review the molecular characteristics of intracellular nucleic acid sensor ligands, the structural basis of the binding preferences of the sensors, the identity and origin of immunostimulatory nucleic acid species during infection, the influence of intracellular localization of the sensor on immune activation, and the ability of viruses to use the ligand specificity of the sensors to evade recognition.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
25468771 Currently the full-text not available Detection of auto-antibodies to DAT in the serum: interactions with DAT genotype and psycho-stimulant therapy for ADHD. Journal of neuroimmunology [StringElement('Interest is rising for auto-immune contribution in neuro-psychiatry.
We evaluated the auto-antibodies against dopamine transporter (DAT aAbs) in 61 children (46 ADHD who met DSM-IV-TR criteria, 15 healthy controls).', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement("ADHD patients were assigned, according to severity, either to a non-pharmacological therapy (NPT, N=32) or to a pharmacological treatment (PT, N=14) with methylphenidate (MPH).
In ADHD children, blood samples were withdrawn twice, at recruitment (T0 basal) and after 6 weeks (T1); following 16 excluded subjects, DAT genotype was characterized (9-repeat or 10-repeat alleles; N=15 each).
After 18 months of NPT or PT, some patients (carrying at least one 9-repeat allele) were blood sampled again (T2), for comparison with healthy controls (final n=8) RESULTS: Compared to NPT, basal DAT aAbs titers were higher within most severe patients (then assigned to PT), specifically if carrying a DAT 10/10 genotype.
DAT aAbs levels of NPT group resulted highly correlated with distinct subscales of Conners' Parent/Teacher Scales (Rs>0.34), especially within DAT 10/10 genotype (Rs>0.53).
While T1 titers were elevated over T0 baseline for NPT children, such an increase was not observed in PT patients carrying at least one 9-repeat allele, who also showed behavioral response to subchronic MPH.
After 12-24 months of MPH exposure, DAT aAbs titers in PT subjects were comparable to those of healthy controls, while titers remained significantly elevated in NPT patients.
Data warrant further research on serum DAT aAbs, which could be used to confirm ADHD diagnosis and/or to monitor therapeutic efficacy of MPH.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'})] 
24136904 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3937738/pdf/
Cyclic di-nucleotide signaling enters the eukaryote domain.
IUBMB life ['Cyclic (c-di-GMP) is the prevalent intracellular signaling intermediate in bacteria.
It triggers a spectrum of responses that cause bacteria to shift from a swarming motile phase to sessile biofilm formation.
However, additional functions for c-di-GMP and roles for related molecules, such as c-di-AMP and c-AMP-GMP continue to be uncovered.
The first usage of cyclic-di-nucleotide (c-di-NMP) signaling in the eukaryote domain emerged only recently.
In dictyostelid social amoebas, c-di-GMP is a secreted signal that induces motile amoebas to differentiate into sessile stalk cells.
In humans, c-di-NMPs, which are either produced endogenously in response to foreign DNA or by invading bacterial pathogens, trigger the innate immune system by activating the expression of interferon genes.
STING, the human c-di-NMP receptor, is conserved throughout metazoa and their closest unicellular relatives, suggesting protist origins for human c-di-NMP signaling.
Compared to the limited number of conserved protein domains that detect the second messengers cAMP and cGMP, the domains that detect the c-di-NMPs are surprisingly varied.'] 
18805740 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine carcinoma associated with X-linked hyper-immunoglobulin M syndrome: report of four cases and review of the literature.
Clinical immunology (Orlando, Fla.) ['X-linked hyper-immunoglobulin M syndrome (XHIGM) is a primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by severe defects of both cellular and humoral immunity due to impaired expression of CD40 ligand on activated T lymphocytes.
Patients with XHIGM usually present with a wide variety of infections caused by common and opportunistic pathogens including Pneumocystis jirovecii.
In addition, subjects with XHIGM have an increased risk for hepatocellular and bile duct carcinomas, which are rarely observed in other primary immunodeficiencies.
We present here clinical, immunological, and molecular findings of four patients with CD40 ligand deficiency associated with neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC).
NEC developed as a rapidly disseminated solid cancer leading to death in three patients.
Data presented here and published previously suggest that CD40 ligand deficiency may predispose patients for the development of NEC. Histochemical findings suggested that CD56, in addition to cytokeratin and chromogranin A, may be a useful marker for early detection of NEC. We conclude that patients with XHIGM should be carefully followed to diagnose and treat NEC, a formidable neuroendocrine cancer.'] 
22180717 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3233680/pdf/ Neuroendocrine and squamous colonic composite carcinoma: case report with molecular analysis.
World journal of gastroenterology ['Composite colorectal carcinomas are rare.
There are a modest number of cases in the medical literature, with even fewer cases describing composite carcinoma with neuroendocrine and squamous components.
There are to our knowledge no reports of composite carcinoma molecular alterations.
We present a case of composite carcinoma of the splenic flexure in a 33 year-old Caucasian male to investigate the presence and prognostic significance of molecular alterations in rare colonic carcinoma subtypes.
Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue was hematoxylin and eosin- and mucicarmine-stained according to protocol, and immuno-stained with cytokeratin (CK)7, CK20, CDX2, AE1/AE3, chromogranin-A and synaptophysin.
DNA was extracted from FFPE tissues and molecular analyses were performed according to lab-developed methods, followed by capillary electrophoresis.
Hematoxylin and eosin staining showed admixed neuroendocrine and keratinized squamous cells.
Positive nuclear CDX2 expression confirmed intestinal derivation.
CK7 and CK20 were negative.
Neuroendocrine cells stained positively for synaptophysin and AE1/AE3 and negatively for chromogranin and mucicarmine.
Hepatic metastases showed a similar immunohistochemical profile.
Molecular analysis revealed a G13D KRAS mutation.
BRAF mutational testing was negative and microsatellite instability was not detected.
The patient had rapid disease progression on chemotherapy and died 60 d after presentation.
Although the G13D KRAS mutation normally predicts an intermediate outcome, the aggressive tumor behavior suggests other modifying factors in rare types of colonic carcinomas.'] 
2448025 Currently the full-text not available Prognostic factors in medullary thyroid carcinomas.
Survival in relation to age, sex, stage, histology, immunocytochemistry, and DNA content.
Cancer ['Patients with medullary thyroid carcinomas (MTC) were analyzed according to age, sex, and tumor stage.
In addition, the MTC were screened for the predominant histologic pattern, immunocytochemical spectrum (60 tumors), and DNA content (DNA cytophotometry and DNA flow cytometry, 25 tumors).
These findings were correlated with follow-up data available for 45 of these patients.
Forty-eight percent of the tumors revealed a polygonal cell pattern, whereas 22% showed spindle-cell predominance.
All tumors contained cytokeratin, chromogranin A, and calcitonin (CT).
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was present in 92%, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in 77%, neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in 75%, and vimentin in 53% of cases.
Positivity for neurotensin, somatostatin, neurofilaments, bombesin, and alpha human chorionic gonadotropin (a-hCG) and serotonin ranged between 3% and 27%.
All MTC were negative for substance P, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), thyroglobulin (TG), or S-100 protein.
Local recurrences and regional lymph node metastases revealed identical staining patterns as the primaries.
Prognosis of MTC was found not to be related to histologic features (dominant architectural pattern, cellular shape, presence of amyloid deposits) or immunocytochemical pattern.
Instead, survival was significantly correlated to age, sex, and stage of disease.
The best prognosis was seen in women younger than 40 years and revealing an early stage of disease.
DNA measurements added valuable information in assessing the prognosis of MTC.'] 
8876222 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC38143/pdf/ G protein-coupled cholecystokinin-B/gastrin receptors are responsible for physiological cell growth of the stomach mucosa in vivo.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Many peptide hormone and neurotransmitter receptors belonging to the seven membrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptor family have been shown to transmit ligand-dependent mitogenic signals in vitro.
However, the physiological roles of the mitogenic activity through G protein-coupled receptors in vivo remain to be elucidated.
Here we have generated G protein-coupled cholecystokinin (CCK)-B/gastrin receptor deficient-mice by gene targeting.
The homozygous mice showed a remarkable atrophy of the gastric mucosa macroscopically, even in the presence of severe hypergastrinemia.
The atrophy was due to a decrease in parietal cells and chromogranin A-positive enterochromaffin-like cells expressing the H+,K(+)-ATPase and histidine decarboxylase genes, respectively.
Oral administration of a proton pump inhibitor, omeprazole, which induced hypertrophy of the gastric mucosa with hypergastrinemia in wild-type littermates, did not eliminate the gastric atrophy of the homozygotes.
These results clearly demonstrated that the G protein-coupled CCK-B/gastrin receptor is essential for the physiological as well as pathological proliferation of gastric mucosal cells in vivo.'] 
7937695 Currently the full-text not available Sodium butyrate induces neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation in the insulinoma cell line RINm5F. Pancreas ['The differentiating agent sodium butyrate inhibits proliferation and stimulates cell-specific hormone expression in rat insulinoma cells.
In this study, we investigated the effect of sodium butyrate on neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation in the rat insulinoma subclone, RINm5F. The cells were cultured with 0.5, 1, or 1.5 mM sodium butyrate for up to 72 h. Ultrastructurally, cells cultured with 1 mM sodium butyrate revealed a more differentiated appearance with an induction of cellular compartments involved in regulated insulin secretion.
Morphometric analysis showed a significant elevation of neuroendocrine granule density.
The total area of the specific granules was increased after incubation with 1 mM sodium butyrate for 48 and 72 h. Proliferation of RINm5F cells was inhibited by sodium butyrate in a dose-dependent manner.
DNA production ceased completely within 24 h at 1.5 mM sodium butyrate.
This concentration of sodium butyrate increased the cellular insulin content 8.9-fold and the insulin production 2-fold after 72 h. The insulin release was reduced from 79 +/- 3.5% in controls to 37 +/- 5.6% of total in a 24-h incubation period after 3 days of culture with 1.5 mM sodium butyrate.
Insulin mRNA levels increased to a maximum of 324% compared with controls after 48 h of culture with 1.5 mM sodium butyrate.
Chromogranin
A mRNA levels increased to a similar extent (368 +/- 26%), whereas sodium butyrate did not stimulate the expression of synaptophysin, a major membrane component of small neuroendocrine vesicles.
In conclusion, our data suggest the selective induction of neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation by sodium butyrate in RINm5F cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)'] 
25625930 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4514086/pdf/ Mechanisms and pathways of innate immune activation and regulation in health and cancer.
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics ['Research on innate immune signaling and regulation has recently focused on pathogen recognition receptors (PRRs) and their signaling pathways.
Members of PRRs sense diverse microbial invasions or danger signals, and initiate innate immune signaling pathways, leading to proinflammatory cytokines production, which, in turn, instructs adaptive immune response development.
Despite the diverse functions employed by innate immune signaling to respond to a variety of different pathogens, the innate immune response must be tightly regulated.
Otherwise, aberrant, uncontrolled immune responses will lead to harmful, or even fatal, consequences.
Therefore, it is essential to better discern innate immune signaling and many regulators, controlling various signaling pathways, have been identified.
In this review, we focus on the recent advances in our understanding of the activation and regulation of innate immune signaling in the host response to pathogens and cancer.'] 
22524667 Currently the full-text not available Anal canal neuroendocrine carcinoma associated with squamous intraepithelial neoplasia: a human papillomavirus 18-related lesion.
Pathology international ['Neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) of the anal canal is exceedingly rare and its histogenesis is poorly understood.
We present a case of small-cell NEC of the anal canal in a 70-year-old woman.
The NEC appeared as a submucosal tumor at the dentate line and was associated with squamous intraepithelial neoplasia (SIN).
The NEC was positive for neuroendocrine markers including synaptophysin, chromogranin A and CD56, whereas the SIN component did not express any of these markers.
Both components exhibited p16 overexpression.
A PCR analysis revealed that both the SIN and NEC components were positive for human papillomavirus (HPV) 18 DNA. Our observations imply that SIN may be a precursor of anal canal NEC and that HPV18 may play an important role in the histogenesis of anal canal NEC, similar to its role in cervical NEC.'] 
27312109 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4967948
[AVAILABLE ON 08/01/17]/pdf/ RNF123 has an E3 ligase-independent function in RIG-I-like receptor-mediated antiviral signaling.
EMBO reports ['Retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) are cytoplasmic sensors crucial for recognizing different species of viral RNAs, which triggers the production of type I interferons (IFNs) and inflammatory cytokines.
Here, we identify RING finger protein 123 (RNF123) as a negative regulator of RIG-I and MDA5.
Overexpression of RNF123 inhibits IFN-β production triggered by Sendai virus (SeV) and encephalomyocarditis picornavirus (EMCV).
Knockdown or knockout of endogenous RNF123 potentiates IFN-β production triggered by SeV and EMCV, but not by the sensor of DNA viruses cGAS RNF123 associates with RIG-I and MDA5 in both endogenous and exogenous cases in a viral infection-inducible manner.
The SPRY and coiled-coil, but not the RING, domains of RNF123 are required for the inhibitory function.
RNF123 interacts with the N-terminal CARD domains of RIG-I/MDA5 and competes with the downstream adaptor VISA/MAVS/IPS-1/Cardif for RIG-I/MDA5 CARD binding.
These findings suggest that RNF123 functions as a novel inhibitor of innate antiviral signaling mediated by RIG-I and MDA5, a function that does not depend on its E3 ligase activity.'] 
10461352 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2578993/pdf/ Control of histidine decarboxylase gene expression in enterochromaffin-like cells.
The Yale journal of biology and medicine 
9223673 Currently the full-text not available Immortalization of neuro-endocrine cells from adrenal tumors arising in SV40 T-transgenic mice.
Oncogene ['Pheochromocytomas are adrenal medullary tumors which arise from the transformation of neural crest-derived cells.
In the course of studies of mice transgenic for an SV40 T-gene ectopically expressed in the adrenal medulla, we observed the occurrence of large, mainly bilateral tumors in a high proportion of transgenic animals.
From these tumors we established immortalized cell lines which grow in vitro at 32 degrees C (the permissive temperature for the tsA58 T-protein encoded by the transgene), but not at 38 C. These cells demonstrate characteristics of both neuronal (160 kd neurofilament) and endocrine (chromogranins) cells.
The expression of Mash-1 and ret supports their initial characterization as early bipotential neuro-endocrine progenitors.'] 
2109298 Currently the full-text not available A clinicopathologic study of three carcinoid tumors metastatic to the orbit.
Immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and DNA flow cytometric studies.
Ophthalmology ['Three patients with histopathologically proven orbital metastatic lesions from a carcinoid tumor are reported.
Computed tomography (CT) disclosed a well-circumscribed orbital mass in two of three cases.
Each tumor was studied by both light and electron microscopy as well as immunohistochemistry and DNA flow cytometry.
A review of the literature discloses the relatively rare occurrence of carcinoid tumors metastasizing to the eye and orbit.
With the exception of one case, the reported metastatic carcinoid tumors to the uvea all developed from primary bronchial carcinoids.
In contrast, the vast majority of the reported orbital metastases arose from ileal carcinoids.
Immunohistochemical markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and serotonin have proven to be useful diagnostic tools in evaluating carcinoid tumors.
Furthermore, DNA flow cytometry may be of prognostic value in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor.'] 
25212897 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4330990/pdf/
Message in a bottle: lessons learned from antagonism of STING signalling during RNA virus infection.
Cytokine & growth factor reviews ["STING has emerged in recent years as an important signalling adaptor in the activation of type I interferon responses during infection with DNA viruses and bacteria.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that STING also modulates responses to RNA viruses, though the mechanisms remain less clear.
In this review, we give a brief overview of the ways in which STING facilitates sensing of RNA viruses.
These include modulation of RIG-I-dependent responses through STING's interaction with MAVS, and more speculative mechanisms involving the DNA sensor cGAS and sensing of membrane remodelling events.
We then provide an in-depth literature review to summarise the known mechanisms by which RNA viruses of the families Flaviviridae and Coronaviridae evade sensing through STING. Our own work has shown that the NS2B/3 protease complex of the flavivirus dengue virus binds and cleaves STING, and that an inability to degrade murine STING may contribute to host restriction in this virus.
We contrast this to the mechanism employed by the distantly related hepacivirus hepatitis C virus, in which STING is bound and inactivated by the NS4B protein.
Finally, we discuss STING antagonism in the coronaviruses SARS coronavirus and human coronavirus NL63, which disrupt K63-linked polyubiquitination and dimerisation of STING (both of which are required for STING-mediated activation of IRF-3) via their papain-like proteases.
We draw parallels with less-well characterised mechanisms of STING antagonism in related viruses, and place our current knowledge in the context of species tropism restrictions that potentially affect the emergence of new human pathogens."] 
27632933 Currently the full-text not available The PARP inhibitor ABT-888 potentiates dacarbazine-induced cell death in carcinoids.
Cancer gene therapy [StringElement('Monoagent DNA-alkylating chemotherapies like dacarbazine are among a paucity of medical treatments for advanced carcinoid tumors, but are limited by host toxicity and intrinsic chemoresistance through the base excision repair (BER) pathway via poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP).
Hence, inhibitors of PARP may potentiate DNA-damaging agents by blocking BER and DNA restoration.
We show that the PARP inhibitor ABT-888 (Veliparib) enhances the cytotoxic effects of dacarbazine in carcinoids.
Two human carcinoid cell lines (BON and H727) treated with a combination of ABT-888 and dacarbazine resulted in synergistic growth inhibition signified by combination indices <1 on the Chou-Talalay scale.
ABT-888 administered prior to varying dacarbazine doses promoted the suppression of neuroendocrine biomarkers of malignancy, ASCL1 and chromogranin A, as shown by western analysis.
Ataxia telangiectasia mitogen factor phosphorylation and p21(Waf1/Cip1) activation, indicative of DNA damage, were increased by ABT-888 when combined with dacarbazine treatment, suggesting BER pathway attenuation by ABT-888.
PE Annexin V/7-AAD staining and sorting revealed a profound induction of apoptosis following combination treatment, which was further confirmed by increased PARP cleavage.
These results demonstrate that ABT-888 synergizes dacarbazine treatment in carcinoids.
Therefore, ABT-888 may help treat carcinoids unresponsive or refractory to mainstay therapies.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26982361 Currently the full-text not available Chitosan: An Adjuvant with an Unanticipated STING. Immunity ['Adjuvants promote adaptive immunity through the triggering of innate signals that are largely poorly understood.
In this issue of Immunity, Lavelle and colleagues describe an unexpected role for the DNA sensing cGAS-STING pathway in the mechanism of action of the Th1 cell-promoting polysaccharide adjuvant chitosan.'] 
26748714 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4713866/pdf/
Endogenous TRIM5α Function Is Regulated by SUMOylation and Nuclear Sequestration for Efficient Innate Sensing in Dendritic Cells.
Cell reports ['During retroviral infection, viral capsids are subject to restriction by the cellular factor TRIM5α.
Here, we show that dendritic cells (DCs) derived from human and non-human primate species lack efficient TRIM5α-mediated retroviral restriction.
In DCs, endogenous TRIM5α accumulates in nuclear bodies (NB) that partly co-localize with Cajal bodies in a SUMOylation-dependent manner.
Nuclear sequestration of TRIM5α allowed potent induction of type I interferon (IFN) responses during infection, mediated by sensing of reverse transcribed DNA by cGAS. Overexpression of TRIM5α or treatment with the SUMOylation inhibitor ginkgolic acid (GA) resulted in enforced cytoplasmic TRIM5α expression and restored efficient viral restriction but abrogated type I IFN production following infection.
Our results suggest that there is an evolutionary trade-off specific to DCs in which restriction is minimized to maximize sensing.
TRIM5α regulation via SUMOylation-dependent nuclear sequestration adds to our understanding of how restriction factors are regulated.'] 
26373573 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4750108
[AVAILABLE ON 11/01/16]/pdf/ Molecular Pathways:
Targeting the Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) in the Immunotherapy of Cancer.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research ['Novel immunotherapy approaches are transforming the treatment of cancer, yet many patients remain refractory to these agents.
One hypothesis is that immunotherapy fails because of a tumor microenvironment that fails to support recruitment of immune cells, including CD8(+) T cells.
Therefore, new approaches designed to initiate a de novo antitumor immune response from within the tumor microenvironment are being pursued.
Recent evidence has indicated that spontaneous activation of the Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) pathway within tumor-resident dendritic cells leads to type I IFN production and adaptive immune responses against tumors.
This pathway is activated in the presence of cytosolic DNA that is detected by the sensor cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and generates cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), which binds and activates STING. As a therapeutic approach, intratumoral injection of STING agonists has demonstrated profound therapeutic effects in multiple mouse tumor models, including melanoma, colon, breast, prostate, and fibrosarcoma.
Better characterization of the STING pathway in human tumor recognition, and the development of new pharmacologic approaches to engage this pathway within the tumor microenvironment in patients, are important areas for clinical translation.'] 
25811886 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4374777/pdf/ Induction of interferon-stimulated genes by IRF3 promotes replication of Toxoplasma gondii.
PLoS pathogens ['Innate immunity is the first line of defense against microbial insult.
The transcription factor, IRF3, is needed by mammalian cells to mount innate immune responses against many microbes, especially viruses.
IRF3 remains inactive in the cytoplasm of uninfected cells; upon virus infection, it gets phosphorylated and then translocates to the nucleus, where it binds to the promoters of antiviral genes and induces their expression.
Such genes include type I interferons (IFNs) as well as Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs).
IRF3-/- cells support enhanced replication of many viruses and therefore, the corresponding mice are highly susceptible to viral pathogenesis.
Here, we provide evidence for an unexpected pro-microbial role of IRF3: the replication of the protozoan parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, was significantly impaired in IRF3-/- cells.
In exploring whether the transcriptional activity of IRF3 was important for its pro-parasitic function, we found that ISGs induced by parasite-activated IRF3 were indeed essential, whereas type I interferons were not important.
To delineate the signaling pathway that activates IRF3 in response to parasite infection, we used genetically modified human and mouse cells.
The pro-parasitic signaling pathway, which we termed PISA (Parasite-IRF3 Signaling Activation), activated IRF3 without any involvement of the Toll-like receptor or RIG-I-like receptor pathways, thereby ruling out a role of parasite-derived RNA species in activating PISA.
Instead, PISA needed the presence of cGAS, STING, TBK1 and IRF3, indicating the necessity of DNA-triggered signaling.
To evaluate the physiological significance of our in vitro findings, IRF3-/- mice were challenged with parasite infection and their morbidity and mortality were measured.
Unlike WT mice, the IRF3-/- mice did not support replication of the parasite and were resistant to pathogenesis caused by it.
Our results revealed a new paradigm in which the antiviral host factor, IRF3, plays a cell-intrinsic pro-parasitic role.'] 
26067651 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4466270/pdf/
Potent Cell-Intrinsic Immune Responses in Dendritic Cells Facilitate HIV-1-Specific T Cell Immunity in HIV-1 Elite Controllers.
PLoS pathogens ['The majority of HIV-1 elite controllers (EC) restrict HIV-1 replication through highly functional HIV-1-specific T cell responses, but mechanisms supporting the evolution of effective HIV-1-specific T cell immunity in these patients remain undefined.
Cytosolic immune recognition of HIV-1 in conventional dendritic cells (cDC) can facilitate priming and expansion of HIV-1-specific T cells; however, HIV-1 seems to be able to avoid intracellular immune recognition in cDCs in most infected individuals.
Here, we show that exposure of cDCs from EC to HIV-1 leads to a rapid and sustained production of type I interferons and upregulation of several interferon-stimulated effector genes.
Emergence of these cell-intrinsic immune responses was associated with a reduced induction of SAMHD1 and LEDGF/p75, and an accumulation of viral reverse transcripts, but inhibited by pharmacological blockade of viral reverse transcription or siRNA-mediated silencing of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS.
Importantly, improved cell-intrinsic immune recognition of HIV-1 in cDCs from elite controllers translated into stronger abilities to stimulate and expand HIV-1-specific CD8 T cell responses.
These data suggest an important role of cell-intrinsic type I interferon secretion in dendritic cells for the induction of effective HIV-1-specific CD8 T cells, and may be helpful for eliciting functional T cell immunity against HIV-1 for preventative or therapeutic clinical purposes.'] 
25810395 Currently the full-text not available Casein kinase II controls TBK1/IRF3 activation in IFN response against viral infection.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['By sensing viral nucleic acids, host innate receptors elicit signaling pathways converging on TBK1-IFN regulatory factor (IRF)3 axis in mediating IFN-αβ induction and defense mechanisms.
In contrast, viruses have evolved with diverse immune evasion/interference mechanisms to undermine innate receptor signaling and IFN response.
In this regard, approaches enabling host to overcome such immune evasion/interference mechanisms are urgently needed to combat infections by epidemic/pandemic viruses.
In this study, we report that protein kinase CK2 serves as a key component controlling TBK1 and IRF3 activation in IFN-inducing TLR, RIG-I-like receptors, and cGAS/STING signaling pathways.
Accordingly, knocking down of CK2 expression or genetic ablation of its kinase activity resulted in elevated IFN-αβ response in response to infection by DNA and RNA viruses.
Moreover, PP2A was identified as one of the intermediate phosphatases responsible for CK2-regulated IFN response, suggesting that CK2 may regulate TBK1 and IRF3 activation indirectly.
Importantly, blockade of CK2 activity by small molecule inhibitor was able to activate TBK1, whereby eliciting effective host defense mechanisms against hepatitis C virus infection.
Taken together, our results identify CK2 as a novel regulator of TBK1 and IRF3 and suggest that targeting CK2 by small molecular inhibitor may be a viable approach to prevent and treat viral infections.'] 
21768923 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3180880/pdf/ Establishment and characterization of a new cell line, A99, from a primary small cell carcinoma of the pancreas.
Pancreas [StringElement('Small cell carcinoma (SCC) of the pancreas is a rare malignancy with a poor prognosis.
We established and characterized a primary human pancreatic SCC cell line, designated A99.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVES'}), StringElement('Cancer tissue was obtained from the liver metastasis of an SCC of the pancreas and xenografted into nude mice.
The first-pass xenograft was then used to establish a cultured cell line called A99.
Cellular morphology, immunohistochemical properties, tumorigenic potential, and genetic alterations of this new line were characterized.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('A99 cells grew consistently in culture, formed colonies in soft agar, and grew as subcutaneous xenografts when inoculated into nude mice.
A99 cells were positive for pancytokeratin, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, CD57 (Leu7), CD56, protein gene product 9.5, thyroid transcription factor 1, Smad4, p53, and p16, but not for CD99, PDX-1, or retinoblastoma protein.
Sequencing analysis revealed homozygous point mutations of KRAS and TP53.
Cytogenetic analysis revealed complex chromosomal rearrangements including marker chromosomes.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('A99 is the first cell line reported to be derived from a primary SCC of the pancreas.
The establishment of this cell line may serve as a useful model system for studying the cell biology of this rare cancer or for evaluating novel targeted agents in preclinical models.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25658875 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4320088/pdf/ Induction of PLSCR1 in a STING/IRF3-dependent manner upon vector transfection in ovarian epithelial cells.
PloS one ['Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are the primary sensors of the innate immune system that recognize pathogenic nucleic acids including double-stranded plasmid DNA (dsDNA).
TLR signaling activates multiple pathways including IRF3 which is involved in transcriptional induction of inflammatory cytokines (i.e. interferons (IFNs)).
Phospholipid scramblase 1, PLSCR1, is a highly inducible IFN-regulated gene mediating anti-viral properties of IFNs.
Herein, we report a novel finding that dsDNA transfection in T80 immortalized normal ovarian surface epithelial cell line leads to a marked increase in PLSCR1 mRNA and protein.
We also noted a comparable response in primary mammary epithelial cells (HMECs).
Similar to IFN-2α treated cells, de novo synthesized PLSCR1 was localized predominantly to the plasma membrane.
dsDNA transfection, in T80 and HMEC cells, led to activation of MAPK and IRF3.
Although inhibition of MAPK (using U0126) did not modulate PLSCR1 mRNA and protein, IRF3 knockdown (using siRNA) significantly ablated the PLSCR1 induction.
In prior studies, the activation of IRF3 was shown to be mediated by cGAS-STING pathway.
To investigate the contribution of STING to PLSCR1 induction, we utilized siRNA to reduce STING expression and observed that PLSCR1 protein was markedly reduced.
In contrast to normal T80/HMECs, the phosphorylation of IRF3 as well as induction of STING and PLSCR1 were absent in ovarian cancer cells (serous, clear cell, and endometrioid) suggesting that the STING/IRF3 pathway may be dysregulated in these cancer cells.
However, we also noted induction of different TLR and IFN mRNAs between the T80 and HEY (serous epithelial ovarian carcinoma) cell lines upon dsDNA transfection.
Collectively, these results indicate that the STING/IRF3 pathway, activated following dsDNA transfection, contributes to upregulation of PLSCR1 in ovarian epithelial cells.'] 
22301491 Currently the full-text not available HPV-associated neuroendocrine carcinoma of the oropharynx: a rare new entity with potentially aggressive clinical behavior.
The American journal of surgical pathology ['High-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma of the head and neck is an aggressive neoplasm which rarely arises in the oropharynx.
Here we report a series of 8 oropharyngeal neuroendocrine carcinomas associated with both human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and tobacco exposure.
The tumor occurred predominantly in male patients (6 of 8) at a mean age of 59 years.
Histologically, these cases were all classified as poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (small cell carcinoma) with high mitotic activity [mean 53.3 mitoses per 10 HPF], necrosis, high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio, and nuclear molding.
One case also exhibited a moderately differentiated component, and one other case had a component of squamous cell carcinoma with basaloid features.
Neuroendocrine differentiation was confirmed by immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and/or chromogranin A in all cases.
P63 staining was negative, except in 1 case.
Seven of the 8 cases showed strong and diffuse p16 expression, a surrogate marker for high-risk HPV infection.
HPV infection was confirmed in 6 of these 7 cases by HPV in situ hybridization and/or polymerase chain reaction analysis.
HPV subtypes 16, 18, and 33 were identified in 1 case each by polymerase chain reaction testing.
Six of the 7 patients for whom clinical history was available presented with advanced disease (4 with regional lymph node metastases, 1 with distant metastases, and 1 with distant and locoregional metastases).
Disease recurred in 5 of the 6 patients with available clinical follow-up, with 3 developing distant metastases to brain, bones, lung, pleura, adrenal glands, and pancreas.
These 3 cases were all from the HPV-positive group.
In summary, neuroendocrine carcinoma of the oropharynx represents a rare novel HPV-associated entity with high-grade histologic features and aggressive clinical behavior.'] 
20607034 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2894643/pdf/
Azacytidine induces cell cycle arrest and suppression of neuroendocrine markers in carcinoids.
International journal of clinical and experimental medicine ['Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) hypersecrete neuropeptides that cause debilitating symptoms of carcinoid syndrome, including cardiac abnormalities.
Surgical resection is the only potentially curative treatment for NETs; however, 90% of NE cancer patients are not candidates for surgery due to extensive hepatic sites involved with NETs.
Recently, DNA methyltransferase inhibitors (DNMTI) such as azacytidine (AzaC) have shown efficacy in clinical treatments of hematological malignancies, but effects on NETs are not well-studied.
We hypothesized that this novel class of drugs inhibits NET cell growth and decreases NE markers.
Three carcinoid types-human midgut (CDNT2.5), pulmonary (H727), and gastrointestinal (BON)- were treated with AzaC (0-100uM) over 6 days.
MTT Assays were used to measure cellular proliferation.
Western blots were performed with antibodies against chromogranin A (CgA), Neuron-Specific Enolase (NSE), and Cyclin B1.
Flow cytometric data was collected from AzaC-treated CNDT2.5 cells for DNA cell cycle analysis.
Results showed that treatment of CDNT2.5, H727, and BON carcinoid cells with AzaC resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in tumor cell proliferation.
Flow cytometric analysis showed that AzaC-treated cells accumulate in the G2 Phase of cell cycle.
AzaC treatment led to: significant decreases in CgA and NSE, indicating that AzaC inhibits neuroendocrine markers; and significant increases in the levels of Cyclin B1, further supporting the flow cytometric data and conclusion that AzaC induces G2/M arrest.
The data indicate that AzaC suppresses cell growth in three different carcinoid types, reduces neuroendocrine markers in CNDT2.5 cells, and inhibits cell proliferation by inducing G2/M phase arrest.
The results suggest that DNMTIs may be a novel class of therapeutic agents that can effectively control tumor growth and the release of bioactive peptides in patients with NETs.'] 
7631560 Currently the full-text not available Fine needle aspiration cytology of a male breast carcinoma exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation.
Report of a case with immunohistochemical, flow cytometric and ultrastructural analysis.
Acta cytologica
["We present the cytologic, immunohistochemical, flow cytometric and ultrastructural findings of a case of invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast with features of neuroendocrine differentiation occurring in an 83-year-old male.
Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology of the patient's tumor demonstrated a markedly cellular specimen to discohesive tumor cells, present primarily singly, with occasional loose groups.
The cells were relatively large, with pleomorphic, eccentrically placed, round to oval nuclei.
The cytoplasm was abundant and contained prominent red granules (Papanicolaou stain) that were also argyrophilic.
Immunohistochemical studies performed on the aspirate and the subsequently excised malignant breast tissue revealed positive staining for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and gastrin.
Also, the majority of the tumor stained positive with antibodies to both estrogen and progesterone hormone receptors.
DNA flow cytometry demonstrated an aneuploid stemline population with a DNA index of 1.73 and an S-phase fraction of 4.5%.
Electron microscopy was performed on the FNA material, and numerous variable-sized, membrane-bound, dense-core granules diffusely scattered within the cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells were identified.
The specific cytologic features of this tumor, along with the immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features, can aid the pathologist in rendering an accurate FNA diagnosis of this specific subtype of breast carcinoma."] 
7529022 Currently the full-text not available Tumor necrosis factor-alpha induces the expression of carbonic anhydrase II in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['TNF is a 17kD cytokine classically known for its cytotoxic effects on malignant cells.
More recent cell culture studies demonstrated TNF induced cytostasis associated with the expression of a terminally differentiated phenotype.
This was best characterized in malignant hematopoietic models, although a similar action on cells derived from solid tumors is now increasingly recognized.
In the present study, six day exposure to TNF (40 ng/ml) stimulated morphologic changes in a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line (HPAC), including increased cellular homogeneity, decreased nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio and detachment from the cell monolayer.
Proliferation and DNA synthesis were reversibly inhibited while cellular viability was maintained.
Parallel to the changes in morphology and growth was the delayed appearance of carbonic anhydrase II (CA II, E.C. 4.2.1.1), an accepted marker for pancreatic cells of ductal origin.
A concomitant increase in the steady-state level of CA II mRNA was also observed over the time-course of TNF exposure.
These results suggest a novel role for TNF in the induction of a more terminally differentiated ductal cell phenotype in a human pancreatic carcinoma model.'] 
24119841 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3881181/pdf/
Cyclic dinucleotides trigger ULK1 (ATG1)
phosphorylation of STING to prevent sustained innate immune signaling.
Cell ['Activation of the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway by microbial or self-DNA, as well as cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs), results in the induction of numerous genes that suppress pathogen replication and facilitate adaptive immunity.
However, sustained gene transcription is rigidly prevented to avoid lethal STING-dependent proinflammatory disease by mechanisms that remain unknown.
We demonstrate here that, after autophagy-dependent STING delivery of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) to endosomal/lysosomal compartments and activation of transcription factors interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) and NF-κB, STING is subsequently phosphorylated by serine/threonine UNC-51-like kinase (ULK1/ATG1), and IRF3 function is suppressed.
ULK1 activation occurred following disassociation from its repressor AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK) and was elicited by CDNs generated by the cGAMP synthase, cGAS.
Thus, although CDNs may initially facilitate STING function, they subsequently trigger negative-feedback control of STING activity, thus preventing the persistent transcription of innate immune genes.'] 
1468571 Currently the full-text not available The organisation of the mouse secretogranin II gene.
FEBS letters ["We have characterized the gene which encodes mouse secretogranin II (previously also referred to as chromogranin C), a tyrosine-sulfated secretory protein belonging to the granin (chromogranin/secretogranin) family which is found in secretory granules of most endocrine cells and neurons.
The secretogranin II gene was found to contain 2 exons.
In contrast to chromogranin A and chromogranin B, the two previously characterized granin genes, the entire secretogranin II protein is encoded by a single exon, exon 2, with exon 1 containing only a 5'-untranslated sequence.
Consistent with previous data on the expression of secretogranin II, the putative promoter region was found to contain a cAMP-responsive element and a potential AP-1 binding site."] 
18705773 Currently the full-text not available Malignant pheochromocytoma in a young adult forming the structure simulating Homer Wright rosette: differentiation from neuroblastoma on repeating fluorescence in situ hybridization.
Pathology international ['A peculiar adrenal tumor was analyzed using immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with multiple bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) probes.
The patient was a 34-year-old woman with a mass above the left kidney and multiple metastases.
Her serum and urine dopamine level were elevated, and a diagnosis of malignant pheochromocytoma was made.
The patient died approximately 3 years after her first visit.
On post-mortem an adrenal tumor composed of small round cells forming Homer Wright rosette-like structures, a feature rarely observed in pheochromocytoma, was found.
Immunohistochemistry was positive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin, and negative for cytokeratin, vimentin and neurofilaments.
Because these results did not rule out a diagnosis of neuroblastoma, the tumor was further characterized on FISH with multiple BAC probes for loci known to be altered in neuroblastoma or pheochromocytoma, according to information in the literature that was for the most part obtained using comparative genomic hybridization.
FISH demonstrated loss of heterozygosity at 11p, and gains at 16p, 19p, and 19q, a profile that favored a diagnosis of malignant pheochromocytoma over neuroblastoma.
This case demonstrates that repeating FISH is useful for differential diagnosis.'] 
25655355 Currently the full-text not available Establishment and characterization of a human parathyroid carcinoma derived cell line.
Pathology, research and practice ['Parathyroid carcinoma is a rare neoplasia associated with PTH-dependent hypercalcaemia.
It is infrequent in primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) and very rarely associated with uremic HPT. A continuous cell line named Pt.
Kich-1 from a parathyroid carcinoma diagnosed in a patient with secondary hyperparathyroidism (II° HPTH) was established and maintained in vitro for more than 60 passages.
The cells were characterized for their immunophenotypic and endocrine characteristics as well as for their functional status after treatment by the extracellular [Ca(2+)]e, and the calcium homeostasis regulator 1α,25 (OH)2D3.
The cytogenetic features were established by the R-banding.
The Pt.
Kich-1 cultures show an aspect of admixed epithelial/mesenchymal like cells with a doubling time between 96 and 112h.
The cells are immunoreactive for cytokeratin (60%), EMA (26%), vimentin (46%), E-cadherin (32%), and synaptophysin (16%), while chromogranin A was not detected.
Hypotetraploid karyotype containing large chromosomal markers and double minute chromosomes was identified in 30% of the metaphases.
Treatment of Pt.
Kich-1 cells with 1.0mM, 1.5mM, and 1.7mM of extracellular [Ca(2+)]e increased the DNA synthesis, while the calcium homeostasis regulator, the 1α,25 (OH)2D3, at 10(-9)-10(-7)M inhibited the cell growth.
The levels of PTH measured in the medium of early cultures ranging between 547 and 610pg/μg of DNA declined during the passages to a level between 6 and 12pg/μg of DNA.
No effect on the PTH release by the Pt.
Kich-1 cells was observed after treatment with the all-trans (ATRA) and 9-cis retinoic acid differentiation inducers.
The described in vitro cellular model can serve as a useful tool to study the pathogenesis of parathyroid carcinoma and to improve the knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved in the control of gland sensitivity to [Ca(2+)]e leading to PTH synthesis and secretion.'] 
17190770 Currently the full-text not available Apoptosis, proliferation and differentiation patterns are influenced by Zebularine and SAHA in pancreatic cancer models.
Scandinavian journal of gastroenterology [StringElement('Pancreatic cancer continues to be an urgent clinical problem.
We used the novel DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Zebularine and the histone deacetylase inhibitor SAHA to investigate the epigenetic influence on viability and differentiation of the pancreatic cancer cell lines YAP C, DAN G and Panc-89 in vitro and in vivo.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('Cell vitality, proliferation and expression of PDX-1, cytokeratin 7 and 20, chromogranin A, vimentin, bax and bcl-2 were determined on the protein and mRNA level in vitro and in a subcutaneous xenograft model.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIAL AND METHODS'}), StringElement('A time- and dose-dependent increase of apoptosis, paralleled by decreased proliferation, was observed after incubation with single agents or a combination therapy with lower concentrations.
This was associated with up-regulation of pro-apoptotic bax and a phenotypic stabilization by the enhanced expression of cytokeratin 7.
In vivo, growth of xenografts was delayed with the most pronounced effect in Panc-89 after 1 week of daily intraperitoneal injections of Zebularine paralleled with CK7 up-regulation and down-regulation of dedifferentiation markers.', attributes={'NlmCategory':
'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Epigenetic modulation via inhibition of DNA methyltransferase and histone deacetylase induces apoptosis in human pancreatic cancer cells in vitro and delays xenograft growth in vivo, which is associated with a morphological/molecular phenotypic stabilization.
These compounds may therefore be suitable as adjunctive therapeutic agents in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
24402737 Currently the full-text not available Functional cardiac paraganglioma associated with a rare SDHC mutation.
Endocrine pathology ['Paragangliomas are catecholamine-secreting tumors external to the adrenal glands, most commonly arising in the head and neck, followed by the abdominal and thoracic cavities.
The heart is a rare location for paragangliomas to originate from, with fewer than 50 cases as described in the literature.
Functional paragangliomas of the right atrium are even more unusual, with only five cases reported to date.
The investigations and therapies of a 41-year-old male presenting with a clinically functional cardiac paraganglioma are discussed.
We performed a detailed pathology review of the primary cardiac tumor and a lung nodule to examine morphologic changes, along with an immunohistochemical profile (chromogranin A, tyrosine hydroxylase, MIB-1, and succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB)) of both tumors.
Genetic testing of germline mutations in SDH genes was also completed.
Both the 9.5-cm cardiac mass and 0.5-cm lung nodule were positive for chromogranin A and tyrosine hydroxylase and showed a global loss of SDHB expression.
The MIB-1 labeling index of the smaller lesion and the bulk of the larger lesion was <5 %, but there were cellular foci of the larger lesion that had a labeling index of 10%.
Genetic testing yielded an intronic frameshift mutation in the SDHC gene, c.
IVS 5\u2009+\u20091, G\u2009>\u2009A.
We report the first case of a functional cardiac paraganglioma associated with an intronic frameshift SDHC gene mutation.'] 
2890159 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC299217/pdf/ Sequence of an intestinal cDNA encoding human gastric inhibitory polypeptide precursor.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) is a 42-amino acid hormone that stimulates insulin secretion in the presence of glucose.
Complementary DNA clones encoding human GIP were isolated from a library prepared with RNA from duodenum.
The predicted amino acid sequence indicates that GIP is derived by proteolytic processing of a 153-residue precursor, preproGIP.
The GIP moiety is flanked by polypeptide segments of 51 and 60 amino acids at its NH2 and COOH termini, respectively.
The former includes a signal peptide of about 21 residues and an NH2-terminal propeptide of 30 amino acids.
GIP is released from the precursor by processing at single arginine residues.
There is a region of nine amino acids in the COOH-terminal propeptide of the GIP precursor that has partial homology with a portion of chromogranin A as well as pancreastatin.'] 
19192149 Currently the full-text not available Cellular and molecular characterization of a feline insulinoma.
Journal of veterinary internal medicine [StringElement('Insulinoma is an autonomous insulin-secreting islet cell neoplasm that is rarely diagnosed in cats.
The clinical and pathological aspects of feline insulinoma have been described previously, but the molecular characteristics of these tumors have not been investigated.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('The study objectives were to characterize peptide hormone production and determine expression of selected genes involved in glucose metabolism and insulin secretion in a feline insulinoma.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVES'}), StringElement('Immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR were used to examine hormone and gene expression, respectively, by insulinoma cells.',
attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}),
StringElement('Immunohistochemistry examination indicated that the tumor cells expressed insulin, chromogranin A, and somatostatin but not glucagon or pancreatic polypeptide.
The tumor expressed several genes characteristic of pancreatic beta cells (beta cells) including insulin (INS), glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2), and glucokinase (GCK).
The tumor also expressed hexokinase 1 (HK1), a glycolytic enzyme not normally expressed in beta cells.
GCK expression was higher in the insulinoma than in normal pancreas from the same cat.
The GCK :
HK1 ratio was >20-fold higher in insulinoma tissue than in normal pancreas.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The feline insulinoma produced several peptide hormones and expressed genes consistent with a beta-cell phenotype.
The pattern of hexokinase gene expression in tumor cells differed from that of normal pancreas.
These findings suggest insulinoma cells may have an increased sensitivity to glucose that could contribute to the abnormal insulin secretory response observed at low serum glucose concentrations.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE'})] 
8098784 Currently the full-text not available Polyoma-induced neoplasms of the mouse adrenal medulla.
Characterization of the tumors and establishment of cell lines.
Laboratory investigation; a journal of technical methods and pathology [StringElement('Pheochromocytomas that are usually noradrenergic arise commonly in the adult rat adrenal medulla.
The widely studied PC12 cell line, that is representative of these rat adrenal tumors, is also noradrenergic.
The reasons for the absence of epinephrine production by most rat pheochromocytoma cells are unknown, and there are currently no adrenergic adrenal medullary cell lines.
Pheochromocytomas are rare in mice.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Tumors induced by polyoma virus in the adrenal medullas of postnatal mice were studied immunocytochemically for catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes in order to determine how their profiles of catecholamine production compared with those of rat pheochromocytomas.
Clonal cell lines were established from a representative tumor and were evaluated for responsiveness to agents known to affect the development and function of normal and neoplastic rat chromaffin cells.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN'}), StringElement('Although adrenal medullary cells from normal rodents produce epinephrine before birth, polyoma-induced mouse adrenal tumor cells are immature or poorly differentiated.
They synthesize norepinephrine, but not epinephrine, which during normal development is produced later than norepinephrine.
They also produce relatively large quantities of dihydroxyphenylalanine, suggesting an abnormality of catecholamine biosynthesis such that tyrosine hydroxylase is not rate-limiting.
Secretory granules are sparse, as demonstrated by electron microscopy or by staining for chromogranin A, and catecholamine stores are low.
Further, the tumor cells appear to be phenotypically unstable, as judged from heterogeneous staining for tyrosine hydroxylase even in early passage, twice-cloned cell lines.
Tumor cell morphology and catecholamine profiles appear to be unaffected or minimally affected by nerve growth factor, forskolin or dexamethasone, which are known to affect normal or neoplastic rat chromaffin cells.
However, tumors formed after subcutaneous injection of cell lines into mice show up to a 10-fold increase in catecholamine stores, suggesting that the cells are subject to some forms of regulation.
The cloned cell lines do not produce detectable polyoma virus, but express all three viral T antigens, including a characteristic, truncated form of large T.', attributes={'NlmCategory':
'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The findings suggest that the process of neoplastic transformation and/or the presence of polyoma virus T antigens results in suppression of the adrenergic phenotype in mouse adrenal chromaffin cells.
T antigens might therefore be useful as tools for studying mechanisms that regulate the differentiation and maturation of chromaffin cells in normal and neoplastic states.
Furthermore, although polyoma virus cannot be readily used to produce adrenergic cell lines from the mouse adrenal medulla, the lines that are produced might substitute for PC12 cells in some types of studies that require a mouse model.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
23566043 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3833386/pdf/
Use of collagen gel as an alternative extracellular matrix for the in vitro and in vivo growth of murine small intestinal epithelium.
Tissue engineering.
Part C
, Methods ["Methods for the in vitro culture of primary small intestinal epithelium have improved greatly in recent years.
A critical barrier for the translation of this methodology to the patient's bedside is the ability to grow intestinal stem cells using a well-defined extracellular matrix.
Current methods rely on the use of Matrigel(™), a proprietary basement membrane-enriched extracellular matrix gel produced in mice that is not approved for clinical use.
We demonstrate for the first time the capacity to support the long-term in vitro growth of murine intestinal epithelium in monoculture, using type I collagen.
We further demonstrate successful in vivo engraftment of enteroids co-cultured with intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts in collagen gel.
Small intestinal crypts were isolated from 6 to 10 week old transgenic enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP+) mice and suspended within either Matrigel or collagen gel; cultures were supported using previously reported media and growth factors.
After 1 week, cultures were either lysed for DNA or RNA extraction or were implanted subcutaneously in syngeneic host mice.
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was performed to determine expansion of the transgenic eGFP-DNA and to determine the mRNA gene expression profile.
Immunohistochemistry was performed on in vitro cultures and recovered in vivo explants.
Small intestinal crypts reliably expanded to form enteroids in either Matrigel or collagen in both mono- and co-cultures as confirmed by microscopy and eGFP-DNA qPCR quantification.
Collagen-based cultures yielded a distinct morphology with smooth enteroids and epithelial monolayer growth at the gel surface; both enteroid and monolayer cells demonstrated reactivity to Cdx2, E-cadherin, CD10, Periodic Acid-Schiff, and lysozyme.
Collagen-based enteroids were successfully subcultured in vitro, whereas pure monolayer epithelial sheets did not survive passaging.
Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction demonstrated evidence of Cdx2, villin 1, mucin 2, chromogranin A, lysozyme 1, and Lgr5 expression, suggesting a fully elaborated intestinal epithelium.
Additionally, collagen-based enteroids co-cultured with myofibroblasts were successfully recovered after 5 weeks of in vivo implantation, with a preserved immunophenotype.
These results indicate that collagen-based techniques have the capacity to eliminate the need for Matrigel in intestinal stem cell culture.
This is a critical step towards producing neo-mucosa using good manufacturing practices for clinical applications in the future."] 
10071238 Currently the full-text not available Simultaneous detection of DNA fragmentation (apoptosis), cell proliferation (MIB-1), and phenotype markers in routinely processed tissue sections.
Virchows Archiv : an international journal of pathology ['In situ DNA fragmentation assays have proved to be particularly useful in the detection of apoptosis in routinely processed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections.
In the present study, a triple-antigen labelling technique was performed to demonstrate DNA fragmentation (apoptosis), cell proliferation (MIB-1), and phenotypic markers in the same tissue section.
The in situ apoptosis assay was conducted with the TUNEL method developed by a avidin-biotin alkaline phosphatase complex (ABcomplex/AP).
The proliferation-associated MIB-1 antigen was demonstrated in the second staining sequence by the avidin-biotin peroxidase method (ABC).
The phenotypic markers chromogranin A or prostate-specific antigen (PSA) were visualized by the alkaline phosphatase anti-alkaline phosphatase method (APAAP) in the third staining sequence.
The feasibility of this triple-labelling technique was tested in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue of prostatic adenocarcinomas from 8 patients with recurrent, hormone-refractory disease.
Although these tumours revealed marked neuroendocrine differentiation, cell proliferation and apoptosis were detected exclusively in non-endocrine (chromogranin A-negative) tumour cells that expressed PSA variably.
The triple-labelling protocol described here allows the phenotypic characterization of proliferating and apoptotic cell populations in the same tissue section.
It may be useful in studies of tissue kinetics in physiological and pathological processes.'] 
21290211 Currently the full-text not available Establishment and characterization of six human lung cancer cell lines: EGFR, p53 gene mutations and expressions of drug sensitivity genes.
Cellular oncology (Dordrecht)
[StringElement('Six human lung cancer cell lines (SNU-371, SNU-963, SNU-1327, SNU-1330, SNU-2292 and SNU-2315) were newly established through primary cell cultures.
These cell lines were derived from a pulmonary blastoma, a small cell lung cancer, three adenocarcinomas and a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung of six Korean lung cancer patients.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('The histopathology of the primary tumors and their in vitro growth characteristics were described.
DNA fingerprinting analysis and genetic alterations in the p53, β-catenin, TGFβRII, K-ras and EGFR genes were conducted.
mRNA expressions levels of E-cadherin, COX-2, MDR1, MXR, CGA, synatophysin and TTF1 genes were investigated and sensitivity to anticancer drugs was screened.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Five cell lines grew as adherent cells and one cell line grew as floating aggregates.
All lines were free of mycoplasma or bacteria and were proven unique by DNA fingerprinting analysis.
A significant polymorphism at codon 72 (Arg to Pro) of the p53 gene was found in one line (SNU-1327) and a mutation at codon 176 was found in SNU-2292.
No mutations in the K-ras, β-catenin and TGF-βRII genes were observed.
E-cadherin was not expressed in SNU-371 and COX-2 was overexpressed in SNU-1330, SNU-2292 and SNU-2315 cell lines.
MDR1 was overexpressed in SNU-371 and SNU-2292 cell lines and MXR was overexpressed in SNU-1327 cell line.
Interestingly, the SNU-371 cell line derived from a pulmonary blastoma and which overexpressed MDR1 displayed cross resistance for several anticancer drugs.
Neuroendocrine markers, chromogranin A and synaptophysin, were overexpressed in the small cell lung cancer cell line, SNU-963 and thyroid transcription factor-1 was also over expressed in this cell line.
Two mutations (p.
Glu746_Ser752delinsVal and p.
Glu746_Ala750del) in exon 19 of EGFR were found in SNU-1330 and SNU-2315 cell lines, respectively.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('These well-characterized lung cancer cell lines may be useful tools for investigations of the biological characteristics of lung cancers, particularly for investigations related to mutations of EGFR.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
9379484 Currently the full-text not available A malignant astrocytoma containing simian virus 40 DNA in a macaque infected with simian immunodeficiency virus.
Journal of medical primatology ['Polyomaviruses have proven oncogenicity in nonhost experimental animals; however, studies concerning the association between human brain tumors and simian and human polyomaviruses have yielded inconclusive results.
We examined the relationship of SV40 to a malignant astrocytoma found in the right frontal lobe of a pigtail macaque (Macaca nemestrina) infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
Consistent with the histologic diagnosis, the tumor was immunoreactive with antibodies to S-100 protein, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein, but negative for neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and chromogranin A.
At the time of SIV inoculation, the animal was seropositive for SV40.
Polymerase chain reaction assay of tumor DNA, but not normal brain DNA, yielded a 300 base-pair fragment corresponding to the carboxy-terminal coding region (C-terminus) of the large T antigen gene of SV40, suggesting an association with the tumor.'] 
19952464 Currently the full-text not available Genes up- or down-regulated by high calcium medium in parathyroid tissue explants from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
Endocrine journal ['To investigate genes modulated in the parathyroid glands by calcium, expression levels of mRNA for all genes expressed in parathyroid tissue explants (PTEs) obtained from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (I degrees -HPT) were analyzed by oligo-DNA microarray.
PTEs obtained from 4 patients with I degrees -HPT were precultured in normocalcemic medium (Ca(++) 1.0-1.1 mM) for 7 days and then cultured in hypocalcemic medium (Ca(++) 0.60 mM) or hypercalcemic (Ca(++) 1.60 mM) medium containing 4 mg/dl phosphate for an additional 7 days.
As expected, expression levels of mRNA for PTH and chromogranin A were decreased to less than 50% in the hypercalcemic medium when compared with those in the hypocalcemic medium.
Furthermore, oligo-DNA microarray analyses revealed that 7 genes were up-regulated by more than 2-fold and more than 30 genes were down-regulated by more than 1/2 in PTEs.
Interestingly, 9 of these genes (up-regulated genes: chemokine ligand 8, multiple C2 domain and transmembrane region protein 1; down-regulated genes: matrix metallopeptidase-9, B-box and SPRY domain-containing protein, nitric oxide synthase 2A, PTH, cartilage acidic protein 1, chromogranin A, and fibrin 1) were involved in calcium metabolism or calcium-signaling pathways in the parathyroid tissue.
However, the expression level of mRNA for alpha-klotho was variable, and it was not constantly decreased in hypercalcemic medium under the present experimental conditions.
Although it was not possible to use normal parathyroid tissue, this is the first reported study to have investigated the expression levels of mRNA for all genes in human parathyroid adenomas that are modulated by high calcium concentration in organ culture.'] 
1455308 Currently the full-text not available Bombesin stimulates growth of human gastrinoma.
Surgery [StringElement('We have previously reported the first establishment and characterization of a functioning human gastrinoma (PT) xenograft.
Bombesin, the equivalent of the mammalian gastrin-releasing peptide, has trophic effects on normal and neoplastic tissues of the gastrointestinal tract; the effects of gut hormones on the growth of gastrinoma are not known.
The purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to determine the presence of various gut peptides in PT and (2) to determine the effect of bombesin on the growth of PT xenografts.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('PT tumors were examined for expression (mRNA and protein) of various gut peptides by Northern hybridization and immunohistochemistry.
In addition, PT xenografts were implanted as 3 mm2 pieces bilaterally subcutaneously in athymic nude mice.
Mice were divided into two groups to receive either bombesin (5 micrograms/kg) or saline administered as intraperitoneal injections every 8 hours.
Tumor area was measured twice weekly until mice were sacrificed (day 28), when tumor and normal pancreas were removed, weighed, and assayed for DNA and protein content.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Both mRNAs and peptides of gastrin and chromogranin A were present in PT tumors.
Bombesin significantly stimulated growth of PT tumors from day 18 until mice were sacrificed (day 28).
As expected, bombesin stimulated pancreatic growth.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We have demonstrated for the first time that bombesin is a trophic hormone for gastrinoma.
The unique cell line PT contains gastrin and chromogranin A and will be a useful model to define the biologic mechanisms controlling the growth of human gastrinomas.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
10974931 Currently the full-text not available Immunomorphological studies and cytometric DNA ploidy in diagnostics of pheochromocytoma.
Polish journal of pathology : official journal of the Polish Society of Pathologists ['The aim of the study was to define features indicating malignancy in pheochromocytoma through analysis of clinical data, immunomorphological and nuclear DNA ploidy patterns with flow cytometry.
The studied group consisted of 33 patients with hypertension and adrenal gland tumor.
In all patients 24 hr measurements of adrenaline, noradrenaline, dopamine and their metabolites were taken and the content of these substances in the tumor tissue was measured.
Morphologically most pheochromocytomas displayed alveolar pattern with polyhedral cells with clear cytoplasm.
Nuclear pleomorphism was infrequent and mitotic figures were rare.
In 5 tumors areas of ganglioneuromatous differentiation were present with neurofilament expression.
Morphological features indicating malignancy were noted--vascular emboli of tumor cells, capsular infiltration and foci of necrosis.
However, in the patient with metastases evident during operation, none of those features was found in the tumor sample.
All pheochromocytomas expressed neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A, synaptophysin and NSE) and most also vimentin.
Reactivity of other markers was negligible.
In DNA ploidy studies in 22/33 cases there was DNA diploid (normal) pattern.
The patient with metastases belonged to this group.
In 3 cases there were aneuploid tumor cells on histograms and in 8 increased number of tetraploid cells.
The follow-up period of our patients was 1-43 months.'] 
22162465 Currently the full-text not available Loss of enteroendocrine cells in autoimmune-polyendocrine-candidiasis-ectodermal-dystrophy (APECED) syndrome with gastrointestinal dysfunction.
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism [StringElement('Enteroendocrine (EE) cells are necessary for the regulation of gastrointestinal function.
The lack of intestinal enteroendocrine cells in enteroendocrine cell dysgenesis causes severe malabsorptive diarrhea.
Autoimmune-polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal-dystrophy (APECED) is often accompanied by gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We hypothesized that an autoimmune attack against the cells of the GI-associated diffuse endocrine system may be a specific feature of GI dysfunction in APECED disorders.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS'}), StringElement('Biopsies were obtained during routine diagnostic endoscopy from 35 pediatric patients with gastrointestinal symptoms as well as from five healthy controls; biopsies were immunostained for chromogranin A and serotonin.
Four patients were classified as APECED syndrome on molecular and clinical grounds.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Immunohistological analysis of biopsies along the GI tract (stomach, duodenum, colon)
immunostained with chromogranin A and serotonin revealed a widespread reduction or complete loss of EE cells in all four patients with APECED syndrome suffering from severe diarrhea, vomiting, malabsorption, or constipation.
In contrast, EE cells were present in pediatric patients with similar gastrointestinal symptoms caused by inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease, lymphocytic colitis, and autoimmune disorders without endocrinopathy or graft vs. host disease of the gut.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The reduction of EE cells is a specific and important early event in the pathogenesis of APECED with GI dysfunction.
We propose a diagnostic algorithm integrating clinics, genetics and immunohistology.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
24516563 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3917832/pdf/ Cytocidal activities of topoisomerase 1 inhibitors and 5-azacytidine against pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma cells in primary human tumor cultures and mouse cell lines.
PloS one ['There is currently no effective treatment for metastatic pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas.
A deficiency in current chemotherapy regimens is that the metastases usually grow very slowly.
Drugs that target dividing tumor cells have therefore had limited success.
To improve treatment, new strategies and valid experimental models are required for pre-clinical testing.
However, development of models has itself been hampered by the absence of human pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma cell lines for cultures or xenografts.
Topoisomerase 1 (TOP1) inhibitors are drugs that interfere with mechanisms that maintain DNA integrity during transcription in both quiescent and dividing cells.
We used primary cultures of representative human tumors to establish the cytotoxicity of camptothecin, a prototypical TOP1 inhibitor, against non-dividing pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma cells, and then employed a mouse pheochromocytoma model (MPC) to show that efficacy of low concentrations of camptothecin and other TOP1 inhibitors is increased by intermittent coadministration of sub-toxic concentrations of 5-azacytidine, a DNA methylation inhibitor that modulates transcription.
We then tested the same drugs against a clonal MPC derivative that expresses CMV reporter-driven luciferase and GFP, intended for in vivo drug testing.
Unexpectedly, luciferase expression, bioluminescence and GFP expression were paradoxically increased by both camptothecin and SN38, the active metabolite of irinotecan, thereby masking cell death.
Expression of chromogranin A, a marker for neuroendocrine secretory granules, was not increased, indicating that the drug effects on levels of luciferase and GFP are specific to the GFP-luciferase construct rather than generalized cellular responses.
Our findings provide proof of principle for use of TOP1 inhibitors against pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma and suggest novel strategies for enhancing efficacy and reducing toxicity by optimizing the combination and timing of their use in conjunction with other drugs.
The paradoxical effects of TOP1 inhibitors on luciferase and GFP dictate a need for caution in the use of CMV promoter-regulated constructs for cancer-related imaging studies.'] 
16794369 Currently the full-text not available MEN1 family with a novel frameshift mutation.
Journal of endocrinological investigation ['Multiple endocrine neoplasm type 1 (MEN1) syndrome predisposes to the development of endocrine and non-endocrine tumors with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
Different mutations have been found throughout the gene with a variable phenotype expression.
The proband, a Caucasian man, was admitted to our department in 2001, at the age of 51 because of a 1-yr history of diarrhoea and hypertension.
He reported a previous intestinal resection for bowel occlusion with a histological diagnosis of unspecified mesenchymal neoplasia.
He had also undergone a left adrenalectomy for a large nonfunctioning adrenal adenoma.
Subsequently, he had suffered from gastralgia and melena; a gastroduodenoscopy showed an erosive gastritis.
His family history was negative for endocrine disorders.
On physical examination, multiple abdominal cutaneous lipomas and facial angiofibromas were observed.
Biochemical screening revealed a primary hyperparathyroidism and an increase in circulating levels of PRL, chromogranin-A, gastrin and glucagon.
The whole body computed tomography (CT) scan, the 111In-octreotide scan and the pituitary magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal any abnormality.
The presence of small neuroendocrine tumors was suspected by a positron emission tomography uptake in the epigastric region.
The endoscopic ultrasound revealed a pancreatic lesion sized 1.1 cm that is under evaluation.
Direct DNA sequencing analysis of the proband MEN1 gene revealed the 579delG frameshift mutation in the exon 3.
The genetic screening of the family revealed the same mutation in 3 out of 5 offspring.
The biochemical screening revealed some features of the MEN1 syndrome in all three of them.
In conclusion, a novel frameshift MEN1 mutation was found in kindred with an apparently negative family history.
Our experience confirms that MEN1 syndrome is a complex and underestimated condition, unless specifically investigated by trained specialists.'] 
25722034 Currently the full-text not available Co-expression of TTF-1 and neuroendocrine markers in the human fetal lung and pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors.
Acta histochemica ['The expression pattern of thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1) and neuroendocrine markers, neuron cell adhesion molecule (NCAM; CD56),
chromogranin A (CgA) and synaptophysin (Syp), of different lung cell lineages was histologically analyzed in 15 normal human fetal lungs and 12 neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) using immunohistochemical methods.
During pseudoglandular phase strong nuclear TTF-1 staining was detected in the columnar nonciliated epithelial cells, while NCAM, CgA and Syp had a moderate expression in the proximal airways and mild expression in the distal airways.
Neuroendocrine cells (NECs) in proximal lung airway were co-localizing TTF-1 and other neuroendocrine markers while neuroendocrine bodies (NEBs) exhibit only staining with NCAM and Syp.
In the canalicular phase TTF-1 nuclear staining was expressed only in several epithelial cells in proximal airways, while budding airways epithelium showed strong TTF-1 expression.
Expression of NCAM, CgA and Syp in this phase equals the one in pseudoglandular phase.
NEBs cells were co-localizing TTF-1 and NCAM in proximal airways and few NECs in distal airway were co-localizing TTF-1 and Syp.
TTF-1 staining in the saccular phase was limited to subsets of epithelial cells in the proximal airways with stronger positivity in the distal airways.
NCAM expression is moderate only in proximal airways, while Syp and CgA show mild expression in proximal and distal airways.
NECs were co-localizing TTF-1 and NCAM in proximal lung airway.
With regard to NECs, all small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cells had strong TTF-1, NCAM, Syp and CgA positivity and TTF-1 co-localized with other neuroendocrine markers.
All pulmonary typical carcinoids were TTF-1 negative, while pulmonary atypical carcinoids were focal positive for TTF-1 and some neoplastic cells co-localized TTF-1 with neuroendocrine markers.
Our results indicate that TTF-1 expression in NECs suggests a possible role in their normal development and differentiation.
Our results also indicate that possible cell of origin for poorly differentiated SCLC and some atypical carcinoid could be a progenitor cell in neuroendocrine lineage while in typical carcinoids possible cell of origin is localized in terminally differentiated NECs.'] 
9428382 Currently the full-text not available Neurohormonal stimulation of histamine release from neuroendocrine cells of the human adenomatous prostate.
The Prostate [StringElement('Neuroendocrine cells (NE) constitute a population of highly specialized cells in prostatic glands; histamine has never been described in these cells.
This article shows the presence and the regulation of release of histamine in NE.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('In 21 prostatic adenomas, NE were identified by specific antisera against neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin-A, synaptophysin), histamine, and histidine decarboxylase (HDC); a rate HDC-cDNA probe was used to detect this enzyme by in situ hybridization.', attributes={'NlmCategory':
'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Immunoreactive cells for chromogranin-A, histamine, and HDC were found among luminal epithelial glandular cells.
Similar cells were also labeled with the HDC-cDNA probe.
Glandular cells, isolated from prostatic adenomas, were shown to contain histamine (7-40 pmol/mg cellular protein).
L(-) norepinephrine causes a time-dependent (t1/2 = 22 min) histamine release; the alpha 1-receptor antagonists WB-4101 and YM-617 specifically inhibited this release, in agreement with a mediation by alpha 1-adrenoreceptor subtype.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('There is some evidence for the presence in prostatic adenomas of histamine-forming cells of neuroendocrine type; histamine release from these cells is under the control of alpha 1-adrenoreceptor subtype.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
1575215 Currently the full-text not available Multiple hamartoma syndrome (Cowden's disease) associated with renal cell carcinoma and primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (Merkel cell carcinoma).
American journal of clinical pathology ["A case of multiple hamartoma syndrome (Cowden's disease) associated with renal cell adenocarcinoma and primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin is described.
Neither of these neoplasms has been documented previously in association with this genodermatosis.
A search for epidermal growth factor receptor (c-erb-B protooncogene) gene abnormalities in the kidney, liver, and thyroid, as well as in tissue of the primary neuroendocrine carcinoma, was negative.
Serum obtained from the patient before his death contained elevated levels of both chromogranin A (2641 ng/mL; normal level, less than 20 ng/mL) and calcitonin (517 pg/mL; normal level, less than 200 pg/mL), suggesting that the patient's principal tumor was neuroendocrine in origin."] 
16536278 Currently the full-text not available [Desmoplastic small round cell tumor: a clinicopathologic study of 15 cases].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology [StringElement('To study the clinicopathologic features and immunophenotype of desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT), and to assess the feasibility of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) as a diagnostic adjunct for DSRCT in routine practice.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('The clinical (number = 15), cytologic (number = 1) and histopathologic (number = 14) features of 15 cases of DSRCT were investigated.
The immunophenotype was studied by LSAB method using a panel of antibodies.
RT-PCR was performed in one case using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue for EWS-WT1 fusion gene mRNA.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Among the 15 patients studied, 13 were males and 2 were females.
Their age ranged from 12 to 38 years (mean age = 23.8 years).
Most presented with vague abdominal discomfort, distension or pain, accompanied by nausea, constipation and weight loss.
Physical examination showed a palpable abdominal mass with ill-defined borders and tenderness.
Ultrasound and computerized tomographic examination revealed single or multiple nodular tumor mass(es) in the peritoneal cavity, measuring 3 cm to 25 cm in greatest diameter (mean tumor diameter = 8.6 cm).
Cytologic examination in 1 case showed clusters of small round cells in a hemorrhagic background.
The tumor nuclei were hyperchromatic and contained inconspicuous nucleoli.
Mitotic figures were readily identified.
The cytoplasm however was scant.
Histologically, the tumor was composed of small, round, ovoid to spindled cells arranged in nests of various shapes and sizes, embedded in a desmoplastic and focally hyalinized stroma.
Immuno- histochemically, all cases showed diffuse and strong staining for AE1/AE3, vimentin, desmin and neuron-specific enolase.
Some of them also expressed CAM5.2, epithelial membrane antigen, CD57, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and WT1.
They were all negative for myogenin, CK5/6, CD117, calretinin and CD99.
RT-PCR successfully amplified the EWS-WT1 chimeric mRNA in 1 case using paraffin-embedded tissue.
Subsequent DNA sequencing showed that the gene fusion involved exon 7 of EWS and exon 8 of WT1 genes.
The fusion gene contained KTS sequence.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('DSRCT is a highly malignant small round cell tumor occurring predominantly in the abdominal or pelvic cavity of young to middle-aged males.
It is characterized by multiphenotypic differentiation.
The peculiar perinuclear dot-like staining pattern for vimentin and desmin is characteristic for DSRCT. EWS-WT1 fusion transcript can be detected in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue by RT-PCR, which may thus serve as a useful diagnostic adjunct for DSRCT.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
25926247 Currently the full-text not available Bronchial-pulmonary adenocarcinoma subtyping relates with different molecular pathways.
Revista portuguesa de pneumologia ['Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world with a high mortality rate.
We analyzed 45 surgical samples of the adenocarcinoma, 13 with lymph node metastasis.
APC, BCL2, chromogranin A, CK 5/6/18 (LP34), CK20, CK7, cyclin D1, EGFR, ERCC1, HER2, Ki67, LRP, MRP, P53, RB and TTF1 expressions were evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC).
Higher Ki67, APC, ERCC1 expressions and lower TTF1 expression were identified in advanced stages (IIA and IIIA) of adenocarcinomas, which reflect a more aggressive, less differentiated, possibly a non-TRU adenocarcinoma.
Acinar, micropapillary and BA/lepidic adenocarcinoma patterns were the most similar patterns and papillary was the most different pattern followed by solid pattern, according to expression of these markers.
Different adenocarcinoma patterns are engaged with different molecular pathways for carcinogenesis, based on the differences of expression.
Acinar, BA/lepidic and micropapillary showed higher TTF1 expression (type TRU), and papillary and solid patterns revealed less TTF1 expression, exhibiting a non-TRU/bronchial phenotype.
Solid pattern revealed lower HER2 and higher EGFR and ERCC1 (this compared to papillary) expression; papillary higher HER2 and lower ERCC1 expressions; micropapillary higher RB expression; and acinar lower ERCC1 and higher EGFR expressions.
Ciclin D1 seems to have more importance in acinar and BA/lepidic patterns than in micropapillary.
ERCC1 protein expression in micropapillary, solid and BA/lepidic patterns may indicate DNA repair activation.
Inhibition of apoptosis could be explained by BCL2 overexpression, present in all adenocarcinoma patterns.
MRP-1 and LRP were overexpressed in all patterns, which may have implications for drug resistance.
Further studies are needed to interpret these data regarding to therapy response in advanced staged bronchial-pulmonary carcinomas.'] 
25325012 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4178426/pdf/ Hidden treasures in "ancient" microarrays: gene-expression portrays biology and potential resistance pathways of major lung cancer subtypes and normal tissue.
Frontiers in oncology [StringElement('Novel statistical methods and increasingly more accurate gene annotations can transform "old" biological data into a renewed source of knowledge with potential clinical relevance.
Here, we provide an in silico proof-of-concept by extracting novel information from a high-quality mRNA expression dataset, originally published in 2001, using state-of-the-art bioinformatics approaches.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('The dataset consists of histologically defined cases of lung adenocarcinoma (AD), squamous (SQ) cell carcinoma, small-cell lung cancer, carcinoid, metastasis (breast and colon AD), and normal lung specimens (203 samples in total).
A battery of statistical tests was used for identifying differential gene expressions, diagnostic and prognostic genes, enriched gene ontologies, and signaling pathways.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Our results showed that gene expressions faithfully recapitulate immunohistochemical subtype markers, as chromogranin A in carcinoids, cytokeratin 5, p63 in SQ, and TTF1 in non-squamous types.
Moreover, biological information with putative clinical relevance was revealed as potentially novel diagnostic genes for each subtype with specificity 93-100% (AUC\u2009=\u20090.93-1.00).
Cancer subtypes were characterized by (a) differential expression of treatment target genes as TYMS, HER2, and HER3 and (b) overrepresentation of treatment-related pathways like cell cycle, DNA repair, and ERBB pathways.
The vascular smooth muscle contraction, leukocyte trans-endothelial migration, and actin cytoskeleton pathways were overexpressed in normal tissue.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Reanalysis of this public dataset displayed the known biological features of lung cancer subtypes and revealed novel pathways of potentially clinical importance.
The findings also support our hypothesis that even old omics data of high quality can be a source of significant biological information when appropriate bioinformatics methods are used.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
1342950 Currently the full-text not available Molecular approaches for the analysis of chromogranins and secretogranins.
Diagnostic molecular pathology : the American journal of surgical pathology, part B ['Recent molecular analyses have contributed to our knowledge about the chromogranin/secretogranin (Cg/Sg) family and their utility in diagnostic pathology.
The genes for five of these proteins have been cloned, and the deduced amino acid sequences have provided insights into the structure and possible functions of the Cgs/Sgs, including their role as prohormones.
Northern hybridization and in situ hybridization histochemistry have provided a great deal of information about the tissue distribution of the Cg/Sg gene products.
Some neoplasms such as small cell lung carcinomas, which have little stored Cg/Sg protein, have abundant cytoplasmic mRNAs that can be readily detected by hybridization studies.
Some other neoplasms such as neuroblastomas have decreased CgA and increased SgII mRNAs during maturation to ganglioneuromas.
There is also a differential expression of Cgs/Sgs in some endocrine neoplasms such as parathyroid adenomas, which express abundant CgA mRNA and little CgB mRNA, and in pituitary prolactinomas, which express CgB mRNA but not CgA mRNA. The mRNA for CgA has been found unexpectedly in some neoplasms such as 15% of colonic adenocarcinomas.
Thus, molecular approaches in the analysis of Cgs/Sgs should contribute to the diagnosis of endocrine neoplasms and may provide support for a molecular classification of neoplasms in diagnostic pathology.'] 
18781279 Currently the full-text not available Chromosome 1p and 19q deletions in malignant glioneuronal tumors with oligodendroglioma-like component.
Journal of neuro-oncology ['Malignant glioneuronal tumors (MGNT) are suggested to be a new entity of glioma defined morphologically as any malignant glioma showing immunohistoichemical evidence of neuronal differentiation.
We encountered seven cases of MGNT with oligodendroglioma-like component and investigated alternations of chromosome 1p and 19q in these tumors.
Seven patients ranged from 33 to 62 years of age, four females and three males.
Immunohistochemical study of these tumors was performed using neuronal markers (synaptophysin, neurofilament, beta-tubulin, chromogranin A and NeuN), astrocytic marker (GFAP) and Ki-67.
We undertook a molecular cytogenetic study of tumor specimens obtained from seven patients using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with DNA probes mapping to chromosome 1p36, 1q25, 19p13 and 19q13.
Histologically, these tumors resembled anaplastic oligodendroglioma.
Immunohistochemically, tumor cells were immunoreactive for synaptophysin (7/7), neurofilament (6/7), beta-tubulin (5/7), chromogranin A (4/7), NeuN (2/7) and GFAP (7/7).
The Ki-67 labeling index ranged from 4.5% to 20.7%.
FISH analysis demonstrated either 1p or 19q deletion in all seven cases (100%) and both 1p and 19q deletions in five cases (71%).
The 1p deletion was detected in six of seven cases (86%) and 19q deletion was also detected in six (86%).
1p and 19q deletions were present in MGNT, especially those with oligodendroglial components.
We suggest that the oligodendroglial-like feature was associated with not only 1p or 19q loss but also differentiation along neuronal cell lines as a factor of favorable prognosis in glial tumors.
It is inappropriate to make a diagnosis of oligodendroglioma based only on morphological resemblance to oligodendroglia.'] 
15466176 Currently the full-text not available Growth factor independence-1 is expressed in primary human neuroendocrine lung carcinomas and mediates the differentiation of murine pulmonary neuroendocrine cells.
Cancer research ['Human small cell lung cancers might be derived from pulmonary cells with a neuroendocrine phenotype.
They are driven to proliferate by autocrine and paracrine neuropeptide growth factor stimulation.
The molecular basis of the neuroendocrine phenotype of lung carcinomas is relatively unknown.
The Achaete-Scute Homologue-1 (ASH1) transcription factor is critically required for the formation of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and is a marker for human small cell lung cancers.
The Drosophila orthologues of ASH1 (Achaete and Scute) and the growth factor independence-1 (GFI1) oncoprotein (Senseless) genetically interact to inhibit Notch signaling and specify fly sensory organ development.
Here, we show that GFI1, as with ASH1, is expressed in neuroendocrine lung cancer cell lines and that GFI1 in lung cancer cell lines functions as a DNA-binding transcriptional repressor protein.
Forced expression of GFI1 potentiates tumor formation of small-cell lung carcinoma cells.
In primary human lung cancer specimens, GFI1 expression strongly correlates with expression of ASH1, the neuroendocrine growth factor gastrin-releasing peptide, and neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin A (P < 0.0000001).
GFI1 colocalizes with chromogranin A and calcitonin-gene-related peptide in embryonic and adult murine pulmonary neuroendocrine cells.
In addition, mice with a mutation in GFI1 display abnormal development of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells, indicating that GFI1 is important for neuroendocrine differentiation.'] 
23780556 Currently the full-text not available A novel mutation (P236S) in the succinate dehydrogenase subunit B gene in a Japanese patient with a posterior mediastinal paraganglioma.
Endocrine pathology ['Succinate dehydrogenase subunit B gene (SDHB) is associated with the development of hereditary paraganglioma (PGL) and pheochromocytoma (PCC).
Here we describe a novel germline mutation in SDHB in a 69-year-old Japanese woman with a posterior mediastinal PGL. We summarize the clinical presentation, diagnostic work-up, and pathological features of a patient with a posterior mediastinal PGL and review the pertinent literature.
Direct sequencing of SDHB and SDHD was performed.
The patient presented with a posterior mediastinal tumor and was normotensive.
She underwent abdominal tumor resection at the age of 38 years, but clinical and pathological diagnoses were unknown.
She had no family history of hypertension, PGL, or PCC. Imaging studies suggested that the tumor was neurogenic.
Endocrinological examinations showed normal plasma catecholamine levels.
The tumor was completely removed without metastasis.
Pathological findings confirmed PGL. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the tumor cells were positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and CD56, and the Ki67 index was low (<1 %).
The patient has not experienced recurrence or metastasis for the last 5 years.
DNA sequencing revealed a novel P236S (c.843 C > T) mutation in SDHB.
The P236S germline mutation in SDHB was associated with posterior mediastinal PGL. Strict follow-up of the patient is necessary because the SDHB mutation may be related to malignancy.'] 
1691194 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2116081/pdf/
The ontogeny of alpha-fetoprotein gene expression in the mouse gastrointestinal tract.
The Journal of cell biology ['The ontogeny of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) gene expression has been examined in the fetal and adult mouse gastrointestinal tract.
AFP mRNA constitutes approximately 0.1% of total mRNA in the fetal gut.
The transcripts were localized by in situ hybridization to the epithelial cells lining the villi of the fetal gut.
At birth, AFP mRNA declines rapidly to achieve low adult basal levels, which are not affected by different alleles of raf, a gene that determines the adult basal level of AFP mRNA in the liver.
The basal level in the adult gut is the consequence of continued AFP transcription in a small number of enteroendocrine cells that are distributed infrequently on the villi.
These cells were identified by double antibody staining with antibodies to chromogranin A, an enteroendocrine cell marker and AFP. Previous studies resulted in the generation of a line of transgenic mice containing an internally deleted AFP gene that was greatly overexpressed in the fetal gut.
The basis for the inappropriately high level expression of the transgene was shown to be the consequence of very high levels of transcription in the epithelial cells of the villi rather than to expression in inappropriate cell types.
The cis-acting DNA sequences required for expression of the AFP gene in the gut were investigated using Caco-2 cells, a human colon adenocarcinoma cell line.
These experiments indicated that, with one exception, the regulatory elements required in both the promoter and enhancer regions of the gene coincided with those that are necessary for high level expression in the liver.
The one exception was enhancer II, located 5 kbp of DNA upstream of the gene, which exhibited no activity in Caco-2 cells.'] 
25337237 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4203208/pdf/
Comparison of neuroendocrine differentiation and KRAS/NRAS/BRAF/PIK3CA/TP53 mutation status in primary and metastatic colorectal cancer.
International journal of clinical and experimental pathology ['Neuroendocrine differentiation of tumor tissue has been recognized as an important prerequisite for new targeted therapies.
To evaluate the suitability of colorectal cancer (CRC) tissue for these treatment approaches and to find a possible link to pretherapeutic conditions of other targeted strategies, we compared neuroendocrine differentiation and KRAS/NRAS/BRAF/PIK3CA/TP53 mutational status in primary and metastatic CRC. Immunohistochemical expression analysis of neuroendocrine markers chromogranin A and synaptophysin was performed on archival CRC tissue, comprising 116 primary tumors, 258 lymph node metastases and 72 distant metastases from 115 patients.
All CRC samples but 30 distant metastases were subjected to mutation analysis of KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, PIK3CA, and TP53.
Neuroendocrine marker expression was found significantly less frequently in lymph node metastases compared to primary tumors and distant metastases (20%, 31%, 28%, respectively, P = 0.044).
KRAS mutation rates increased significantly from primary tumors to lymph node metastases and distant metastases within the neuroendocrine negative CRC group (44%, 53%, 64%, respectively, P = 0.042).
Neuroendocrine differentiation was significantly less concordant than KRAS/NRAS/BRAF/PIK3CA/TP53 mutational status in primary tumor/lymph node metastases pairs (65% versus 88%-99%; P < 0.0001) and primary tumor/distant metastases pairs (64% versus 83%-100%; P = 0.027 and P < 0.0001, respectively).
According to these data, therapeutic targeting of neuroendocrine tumor cells can be considered only for a subset of CRC patients and biopsies from the metastatic site should be used to guide therapy.
A possible importance of lacking neuroendocrine differentiation for progression of KRAS mutant CRC should be further investigated.'] 
23776386 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3681198/pdf/
The genetics of neuroendocrine prostate cancers: a review of current and emerging candidates.
The application of clinical genetics ['Prostate cancer (PC) displays a strong familial link and genetic factors; genes regulating inflammation may have a pivotal role in the disease.
Epigenetic changes control chromosomal integrity, gene functions, and, ultimately, carcinogenesis.
The most widely studied epigenetic event in PC is aberrant DNA methylation (hypo- and hypermethylation); besides this, chromatin remodeling and micro RNA (miRNA) are other studied alterations in PC.
These all lead to genomic instability and inappropriate gene expression.
Causative dysfunction of histone modifying enzymes results in generic and locus-specific changes in chromatin remodeling.
miRNA deregulation also contributes to prostate carcinogenesis, including interference with androgen-receptor signaling and apoptosis.
These epigenetic alterations have the potential to act as biomarkers for PC for screening and diagnosis as well as prognosis and follow-up.
The variable biological potential for a newly diagnosed PC is one of the biggest challenges.
The other major clinical problem is in the management of castration-resistant PC. Neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation is one of the putative explanations for the development of castration-resistant disease.
Most advanced and poorly differentiated cancer does not produce prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in response to disease progression.
Circulating and tissue biomarkers like chromogranin A (CgA) thus become important tools.
There is the potential to use various genetic and epigenetic alterations and NE differentiation as therapeutic targets in the management of PC.
However, we are still some distance from developing clinically effective tools.
Valuable insights into the nature of NE differentiation in PC have been gained in the last decades, but additional understanding of its pathogenetic mechanisms is needed.
This will help in devising novel therapeutic strategies to develop targeted therapies.
CgA has the potential to become an important marker of advanced castration-resistant PC in cases where prostate-specific antigen can no longer be relied upon.
Aberrant androgen-receptor signaling at various levels provides evidence of the importance of this pathway for the development of castration-resistant PC. Many epigenetic influences - in particular, the role of changing miRNA expression - provide valuable insights.
Currently, massive sequencing efforts are underway to define important somatic genetic alterations (amplifications, deletions, point mutations, translocations) in PC, and these alterations hold great promise as prognostic markers and for predicting response to therapy.'] 
24456861 Currently the full-text not available Distinctive renal cell tumor simulating atrophic kidney with 2 types of microcalcifications.
Report of 3 cases.
Annals of diagnostic pathology ['We report 3 cases of primary renal cell tumor simulating atrophic kidney with distinct gross, morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic features.
The tumors were retrieved out of more than 17\u2005000 renal tumors from the Plzen Tumor Registry.
Tissues for light microscopy had been fixed, embedded, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin using routine procedures.
The tumors were further analyzed using immunohistochemistry, array comparative genomic hybridization, and human androgen receptor.
Analyses of VHL gene and loss of heterozygosity (LOH)
3p were also performed.
The patients were 2 women and 1 man, with ages ranging from 29 to 35 years (mean, 31.3 years). Grossly, the neoplasms were encapsulated and round with largest diameter of 3.5 cm (mean, 3.2 cm).
Follow-up available for all patients ranged from 2 to 14 years (mean, 8 years).
No aggressive behavior was noted.
Histologically, akin to atrophic (postpyelonephritic) kidney parenchyma, the tumors were composed of follicles of varying sizes that were filled by eosinophilic secretion.
Rare areas contained collapsed follicles.
Each follicle was endowed with a small capillary.
The stroma was loose, inconspicuous, and focally fibrotic.
Two types of calcifications were noted: typical psammoma bodies and amorphous dark-blue stained calcified deposits.
Immunohistochemically, tumors were strongly positive for cytokeratins (OSCAR), CD10, and vimentin, with weak immunopositivity for CAM5.2 and AE1-AE3.
WT1 and cathepsin K were weakly to moderately focally to diffusely positive.
Tumors were negative for cytokeratin 20, carbonic anhydrase IX, parvalbumin, HMB45, TTF1, TFE3, chromogranin A, thyroglobulin, PAX8, and ALK. Only 1 case was suitable for molecular genetic analyses.
No mutations were found in the VHL gene; no methylation of VHL promoter was noted.
No numerical aberrations were found by array comparative genomic hybridization analysis.
LOH for chromosome 3p was not detected.
Analysis of clonality (human androgen receptor) revealed the monoclonal nature of the tumor.
We describe an unknown tumor of the kidney that (1) resembles renal atrophic kidney or nodular goiter of thyroidal gland; (2) contains a leiomyomatous capsule and 2 types of calcifications; (3) lacks mitoses, atypias, necroses, and hemorrhages and nearly lack Ki-67 positivity; and (4) so far showed benign biological behavior.'] 
1683566 Currently the full-text not available Involvement of the RAF1 locus, at band 3p25, in the 3p deletion of small-cell lung cancer.
Genes, chromosomes & cancer ['The ability to establish long-term cell lines of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) has provided an in vitro model for the disease.
We report on the characterization of 10 new human SCLC cell lines established from 34 cytopathologically positive specimens.
Based on morphologic and biochemical characterization, growth properties, and expression of MYC and neuroendocrine properties, eight cell lines were categorized as "classic" and two cell lines as "variant".
Cytogenetic examination revealed loss of all or part of 3p in all nine SCLC cell lines analyzed.
The smallest deletion in common was found at 3p21-3p25.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analyses with probes for 3p were performed for correlation with karyotypic data and supported the cytogenetic findings.
In 21 SCLC specimens (cell lines and tumor tissue) with normal DNA, used for comparison, we observed loss of heterozygosity at RAF1 (3p25) in ten of ten informative pairs by using two RFLPs from the RAF1 locus.
In addition, loss of heterozygosity was noted in nine of 10 pairs examined with DNF15S2 (3p21) and four of four with D3S3 (3p14).
Analysis of cell lines and tumor specimens that lacked paired normal tissue showed a homozygous pattern with the RAF1 probes in all 18 cases.
Northern blots revealed significant expression of RAF1 in all cell lines tested.
The transcript size was normal.
The cytogenetic and RFLP data suggest that the RAF1 locus at 3p25 is involved in the chromosomal deletion of SCLC.'] 
1323422 Currently the full-text not available [Gene expression of NGFR, EGFR, CGA, NPY in 4 neuroblastoma cell lines].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology ["Gene expression of nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR), epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR), chromogranin A (CGA) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in 4 neuroblastoma cell Lines without N-myc amplification was studied by using Northern blot technique.
N type cells expressed more NGFR mRNA than S type cell's and have only little or no EGFR expression.
S type cells had stronger expression of EGFR mRNA than that of N type cells accompanying with only less or even no NGFR expression.
The results indicated that difference of gene expression of these growth factor receptors might be due to the various directions of tumor cell differentiation.
Cells differentiating toward neurons gave more NGFR expression and cells prepared to be differentiating toward other direction might give more EGFR gene expression.
Various gene expression of CGA and NPY in neuroblastoma cell lines might be due to the presence of different stages of tumor cell differentiation and NGF only induced differentiation of those neuroblastoma cells ready to be differentiating to neurons afterwards."] 
9665483 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1852951/pdf/
Multiple neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas in von Hippel-Lindau disease patients: histopathological and molecular genetic analysis.
The American journal of pathology ['Although pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) in von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease have been reported, their pathological features have not been characterized.
In addition, it is unknown whether alterations of the VHL gene are responsible for pancreatic NET development.
To evaluate NETs in VHL patients, we performed histopathological analysis of 30 pancreatic tumors in 14 patients.
In addition, DNA from NETs and normal pancreatic tissue from 6 patients with documented germ-line VHL gene mutations was studied for allelic deletions of the second copy of the VHL gene by fluorescence in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction-based single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis.
Morphologically, the tumors were characterized by solid, trabecular, and/or glandular architecture and prominent stromal collagen bands.
Sixty percent of the tumors revealed at least focally clear-cell cytology.
All tumors were positive for panendocrine immunohistochemistry markers (chromogranin A and/or synaptophysin); 35% of NETs demonstrated focal positivity for pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, insulin, and/or glucagon; and no immunostaining for pancreatic and gastrointestinal hormones was observed in 65% of tumors.
Dense core neurosecretory granules were evident by electron microscopic examination, and the clear cells additionally revealed abundant intracytoplasmic lipid.
All NETs that were subjected to genetic analysis showed allelic loss of the second copy of the VHL gene.
We conclude that multiple, nonfunctional pancreatic NETs occur in VHL patients.
Stromal collagen bands and clear-cell morphology are important histological features of VHL-associated NETs.
The presence of allelic deletions of the VHL gene in pancreatic NETs provides direct molecular evidence for a role of the gene in their tumorigenesis and establishes NET as an independent tumor type of VHL disease.'] 
22740238 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3597157/pdf/
Mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinoma of the nasal cavity: clinico-pathologic and molecular study of a case and review of the literature.
Head and neck pathology ['Sinonasal intestinal-type adenocarcinomas (ITACs) are rare neoplasms histologically resembling intestinal adenocarcinomas.
Although a neuroendocrine differentiation in ITACs has been described, true mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinomas, neoplasms in which each component represents at least 30\xa0% of the lesion, are extremely rare and their molecular alterations are largely unknown.
We describe herein the clinico-pathologic features, the methylation profile, chromosomal gains and losses, and mutation analysis of KRAS, BRAF and p53 in a nasal mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinoma resected in a 79-year-old man.
The tumor was composed of an ITAC and a poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma.
Both exocrine and neuroendocrine components were CK8, CK20, CDX2 and p53 positive, and CK7 and TTF1 negative.
The neuroendocrine component also showed immunoreactivity for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, serotonin and glicentin.
Gains and losses were found at following chromosome regions: 17p13 (TP53), 14q24 (MLH3), 19q13 (KLK3), 5q21 (APC), 7q21 (CDK6), 9q34 (DAPK1), 12p13 (TNFRSF 1A, CDKN1B), 13q12 (BRCA2), 17p13.3 (HIC1), 18q21 (BCL2), and 22q12 (TIMP3).
Aberrant methylation was detected only in the neuroendocrine component and involved APC and DAPK1 genes.
No mutation of KRAS (exons 2-4), BRAF (exon 15), and p53 (exons 4-10) was found in both components.
The results suggest a monoclonal origin of the tumor from a pluripotent cell undergoing a biphenotypic differentiation and that the neuroendocrine differentiation may be from an exocrine to an endocrine pathway.
We have also reviewed the literature on sinonasal mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinomas to give to the reader a comprehensive overview of these very rare tumor types.'] 
17885674 Currently the full-text not available TdT expression in Merkel cell carcinoma: potential diagnostic pitfall with blastic hematological malignancies and expanded immunohistochemical analysis.
Modern pathology : an official journal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology, Inc ["Merkel cell carcinoma is an uncommon aggressive primary cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma.
Histologically, the differential diagnosis includes the 'small round cell' tumor group, particularly metastatic small cell carcinoma and blastic hematological malignancies involving skin/soft tissues.
Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) is a DNA polymerase, which is a sensitive and specific antibody for acute lymphoblastic lymphoma with a small proportion of acute myeloid leukemia showing positivity.
This study investigates the expression of TdT in 20 cases with initial diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma.
Archival blocks and slides were retrieved and reviewed and clinical information obtained from patient charts.
Immunohistochemistry was performed and graded as: 0, no staining; 1+, less than 50% staining in the cells; 2+, 50% or more staining in the cells.
After review, 15 cases were confirmed as Merkel cell carcinoma.
Immunohistochemical positivity was as follows: 8/15 cases were positive for TdT with strong nuclear staining, morphologically resembling 'blasts', AE1AE3, CAM5.2 (15/15) (both membrane and paranuclear dot positivity), CD56 and BCL-2 (15/15), Synaptophysin (13/15), Chromogranin A (11/15), NSE (15/15), CK20 (14/15), CK7 (3/15), both CK7 and CK20 (3/15), CD117 (8/15), CD99 (2/15), CD10 (1/15).
One case was negative for CK7/CK20.
All 15 cases were negative for thyroid transcription factor-1, LCA, CD20, CD3 and CD34.
Expanded immunohistochemical panel with positive staining for epithelial/neuroendocrine markers, CK20, negative staining for hematolymphoid markers and awareness of TdT expression and other markers that show overlap with blastic hematological malignancies avoids misinterpretation in the diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma.
This aids in further diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma, avoiding the potential diagnostic pitfall with other small round cell tumors and hematological malignancies primary or metastatic to the skin."] 
9851558 Currently the full-text not available Characterization of a partial cDNA clone detected by imidazoline receptor-selective antisera.
Journal of the autonomic nervous system ['A cDNA clone has been isolated from a human hippocampal cDNA expression library by relying on the selectivity of two antisera that are specific for imidazoline binding proteins.
A 1789 bp cDNA clone was sequenced and shown to contain a single open-reading frame that predicts a 66 kDa polypeptide, but it is truncated based on its lack of a stop codon and poly-A+ tail.
Two regions of homology exist for the predicted amino acid sequence in common with chromogranin-A and B proteins, a zinc finger protein, and the ryanodine receptor.
Northern blot analyses of poly-A+ mRNA from 36 human tissues indicated two differentially expressed transcripts of 6.0 and 9.5 kb.
The 6.0 kb mRNA form was enriched in brain and endocrine tissues as compared to other tissues, but not in strict concordance with I1-imidazoline binding sites.
The highest overall amounts of the combined transcripts were found in pituitary.
In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed an enrichment of the message in neuronal cell bodies of the rat hippocampus and cerebellar cortex.
This clone has some of the properties expected of an imidazoline receptor.'] 
20693974 Currently the full-text not available Multidisciplinary approach in diagnosis of lung carcinoma.
Experimental oncology [StringElement('To employ multidisciplinary approach in order to make the correct diagnosis of lung carcinoma clinically and morphologically mimicking lymphoma.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIM'}), StringElement('Immunostaining was performed by incubating tissue sections with appropriate antibodies, using the streptavidin-biotin technique.
Antigen-antibody complexes were visualized with 3-amino-9-ethylcarbasole or diaminobenzidine hydrochloride substrate solution.
We have investigated p53 gene mutations by polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequence analysis of exons 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Tumor cells expressed cytokeratin AE1/AE3, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) without thyreoglobulin positivity.
Further, tumor cells expressed neuroendocrine mar kers: synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), CD56/NCAM, CD57/Leu-7 and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5).
P53 was also expressed.
Diffuse large cell lymphomas of B and T cell origin were excluded.
Direct sequencing analysis of exon 6 of the p53 gene revealed ATC to ACC mutation at codon 195.
Final diagnosis of large cell lung neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) was established.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement("Morphological pattern of tumor complied with large cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, but large cell lung carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation was proved immunohistochemically and confirmed by genetic analysis of p53 mutations in tumor tissue sample.
Multidisciplinary approach in diagnosis of lung carcinoma is useful for its final diagnosis.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
20193455 Currently the full-text not available [Lymphoblastic lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic and prognostic study in 153 Chinese patients].
Zhonghua bing li xue za zhi = Chinese journal of pathology [StringElement('To study the clinicopathologic features, immunohistochemical findings and prognosis of precursor lymphoblastic lymphoma/acute lymphoblastic leukemia (LBL/ALL).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('One hundred and fifty-three cases of LBL/ALL were retrospectively analyzed.
Immunohistochemical study was carried out.
The pathologic findings were correlated with Ann Arbor tumor stage, Ki-67 index, other clinical parameters (including mediastinum/bone marrow involvement, hepato-splenomegaly, age and gender of the patients) and the survival data.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Staining for TdT and CD99 was positive in 79.1% (121/153 cases) and 96.3% (131/136 cases), respectively.
The cases were categorized into three groups according to the immunohistochemical findings, as follows: precursor T-cell, precursor B-cell and undefined.
T-LBL/ALL accounted for 69.3% (106/153 cases) of all of the cases.
The male-to-female ratio was 2.4:1 (including 75 males and 31 females).
The median age at diagnosis was 17.5 years (ranged from 2 years to 68 years).
Ninety-two patients (86.8%) presented with peripheral lymphadenopathy and 59 of them (55.7%) had mediastinal masses.
Ninety-one cases (85.8%) were in stage III or IV at diagnosis.
The 1-year and 5-year survival rates in patients with T-LBL/ALL were 36.1% and 8.1%, respectively.
Patients older than 25 years and those presented in stage III or
IV suggested a poor prognosis (P = 0.049 and 0.001, respectively).
On the other hand, 29 of the 153 cases (19.0%) belonged to B-LBL/ALL.
The median age of the patients was 14 years (ranged from 9 months to 75 years).
The male-to-female ratio was 1.6:1 (including 18 males and 11 females).
Seventeen patients (58.6%) presented with peripheral lymphadenopathy and 13 of them (44.8%) had involvement of bone marrow or peripheral blood.
Mediastinal involvement was found only in 5 cases (17.2%).
Twenty-one patients (72.4%) were in stage III or IV at diagnosis.
The 1-year and 5-year survival rates were 53.3% and 36.7%, respectively.
The remaining 11.7% cases (18/153 cases) were categorized as undefined type, with a negative staining for the following immuno-markers including: CD3ε/CD3, CD45RO, CD79a, CD20, MPO, CD5, CD56, cyclin D1, cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A and synaptophysin.
The median age of the patients was 15.5 years (ranged from 4 to 53 years).
The male-to-female ratio was 2.6:1 (including 13 males and 5 females).
The percentage of T-LBL/ALL patients with mediastinal masses were significantly higher than that of B-LBL/ALL cases (P = 0.0003).
There was no significant difference in prognostic parameters of T-LBL/ALL and B-LBL/ALL (P = 0.07).
The difference in median survival time however was statistically significant (6.0 months +/- 1.1 months versus 15.0 months +/- 7.0 months).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Both TdT and CD99 are useful markers for the diagnosis of precursor lymphoblastic malignancy.
T-LBL/ALL predominantly affects children or adolescent males and frequently presents with lymphadenopathy and mediastinal masses, whereas B-LBL/ALL are often accompanied by bone marrow and peripheral blood involvement.
In general, T-LBL/ALL carries a poor prognosis.
The prognostic criteria include age of older than 25 years and a classification of stage III or IV disease.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
20403035 Currently the full-text not available Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1-associated cystic pancreatic endocrine neoplasia and multifocal cholesterol granulomas.
Pathology international ['A novel combination of tumors was found in a 68 year-old female with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type-1 (MEN 1) that included a cystic pancreatic endocrine neoplasm (CPEN), a pituitary adenoma, and multifocal cholesterol granulomas (MCGs) in the breast, pleura, and the extremities.
The pancreatic tumor displayed a single central locule surrounded by a thin rim of neoplastic parenchyma.
The tumor showed heterogeneity in the architecture that included glandular, trabecular and solid patterns.
The tumor cells of the pancreas were immunohistochemically positive for both endocrine and pancreatic acinar markers including chromogranin A, synaptophysin, glucagon, lipase, and reg protein.
Electron microscopy revealed that there were numerous smaller dense-cored neurosecretory granules, larger zymogen-like granules and microvilli on the apical side of the tumor cells.
The pancreatic tumor was diagnosed as CPEN with acinar cell features.
Analysis of the DNA extracted from the tissues revealed that there is a MEN1 germline mutation in exon 10 codon 527, and somatic mutation in exon 2 codon 32 in the pancreatic tumor, and one base pair deletion in exon 2 codon 79 in the pituitary adenoma.
Here, we report the case and discuss possible pathogenesis of CPEN and MCGs in a patient with MEN 1.'] 
19373849 Currently the full-text not available Obestatin in human neuroendocrine tissues and tumours: expression and effect on tumour growth.
The Journal of pathology ['The hormone obestatin, which is derived from the same precursor as ghrelin and whose receptor(s) is still unrecognized, possesses a variety of metabolic/modulatory functions mostly related to food intake suppression and reduction of gastrointestinal motility.
The distribution of obestatin in normal and neoplastic human tissues is poorly understood.
We report that in fetal tissue samples, obestatin peptide was detected in the thyroid, pituitary, lung, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract, usually being co-localized with chromogranin A.
In adult tissues, obestatin protein expression was restricted to pituitary, lung, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract and was co-localized strictly with ghrelin.
By contrast, in endocrine tumours obestatin was expressed in a small fraction of thyroid, parathyroid, gastrointestinal and pancreatic neoplasms, in most cases with a focal immunoreactivity and co-localized with ghrelin.
Messenger RNA levels of the specific fragments of ghrelin and obestatin were comparable in both normal and tumour samples, confirming that post-translational mechanisms rather than alternative splicing events lead to ghrelin/obestatin production.
Finally, in TT and BON-1 cell lines obestatin induced antiproliferative effects at pharmacological doses, opposite to those observed with ghrelin.
In summary, our data demonstrate that obestatin is produced by the same endocrine cells that express ghrelin in normal tissues from fetal to adult life, whereas, as compared to ghrelin, in neoplastic conditions it is down-regulated by post-translational modulation and shows potential antiproliferative properties in vitro.'] 
12772193 Currently the full-text not available Establishment of a prostatic small-cell carcinoma cell line (SO-MI).
The Prostate [StringElement('Prostatic small-cell carcinoma is an extremely rare, highly aggressive disease.
We established a cell line from this tumor.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Tumor tissue obtained from a 24-year-old Japanese man was used to establish the cell line.
Cultured cells and tumors transplanted into nude mice were characterized by histologic, immunohistologic, immunocytologic, and molecular biologic methods.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIALS AND METHODS'}), StringElement('An immortal culture cell line (SO-MI) was successfully established.
SO-MI cells adhered weakly to plastic surfaces in vitro, showing a 52- to 72-hr doubling time.
SO-MI cells were heterotopically and orthotopically transplantable in nude mice.
The cells were immunoreactive for NSE, chromogranin A, and NCAM, but not for ACTH, calcitonin, serotonin, gastrin, insulin, glucagons, LCA, EMA, PAP, PSA, androgen receptor, and p53.
SO-MI cells secreted NSE in vitro and in vivo.
SO-MI cells at passage 30 contained 50-59 chromosomes with a modal number of 55.
PCR suggested that the p53 gene was deleted in SO-MI cells.
RT-PCR detected no mRNA encoding androgen receptor in these cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('SO-MI cells retain the neuroendocrine nature of the original tumor, and should be useful in studying possible etiologies and new treatments.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
22966261 Currently the full-text not available Renal carcinoid tumor: An immunohistochemical and molecular genetic study of four cases.
Oncology letters ['Few genetic studies of renal carcinoid tumor have been conducted thus far.
We performed immunohistochemical and genetic examinations on four renal carcinoid tumors.
Histologically, the tumors consisted of neoplastic cells with round to oval nuclei.
Various growth patterns such as tightly packed cords and trabeculae, ribbon-like, trabecular, sheet-like or solid growth were observed.
Nuclear chromatin showed a coarse and granular pattern.
Immunohistochemically, tumors were positive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin.
In the fluorescence in situ hybridization study, three of four tumors revealed monosomy of chromosome 3 (D3Z1), but one tumor showed monosomy of chromosome 13 (D13S319/13q34).
Using PCR amplification and fragment analysis of three microsatellite markers (D3S1300, D3S666 and D3S1768) of chromosome arm 3p, one tumor showed loss of heterozygosity at D3S1300 and D3S1768, one tumor was not informative and the analysis of two tumors failed due to low DNA quality.
In three cases, the VHL gene status was tested.
Two tumors showed wild-type, but the analysis of one tumor failed to provide adequate results.
In conclusion, we suggest that the abnormality of chromosome 3 is involved in the pathogenesis of renal carcinoid tumor.'] 
11598856 Currently the full-text not available Malignant teratoma of the thyroid with primitive neuroepithelial and mesenchymal sarcomatous components.
Annals of diagnostic pathology ['A 15-year-old black girl had a near total resection of a malignant thyroid teratoma with bilateral nodal involvement and mediastinal extension.
A predominant neuroepithelial pattern had ependymal rosettes and mitoses, stained for neuron-specific enolase, neuron-specific B tubulin, and synaptophysin.
A malignant spindle cell component stained for smooth-muscle actin, muscle actin, and to a lesser extent S-100.
Loose myxoid tissue resembled primitive cartilage.
Epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin identified epithelial foci.
Chromogranin A, MIC2, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and thyroid stimulating hormone receptor stains were negative.
There was focal anaplasia.
DNA ploidy by laser scanning cytometry was 1.2.
The tumor from the left and right thyroid lobes exhibited trisomy 8, the right also had hyperdiploid cell lines.
She was treated with aggressive combination chemotherapy and radiation.
Presently there is no residual disease 16 months after diagnosis.
Malignant thyroid teratoma is an aggressive tumor, with 15 of 27 reported patients dying 2 weeks to 3 years after diagnosis.
Survivors have been treated with total or subtotal resection, combination chemotherapy with agents effective in the treatment of germ cell tumors as well as sarcomas, and radiation for either recurrent or residual disease.
The heterologous elements, lacking MIC2 staining and t(11;22), support the diagnosis of malignant teratoma rather than a neuroepithelial tumor.
Trisomy 8 is the first cytogenetic abnormality described in malignant thyroid teratoma.
Therapy should be tailored to the management of all transformed histologies.'] 
1455310 Currently the full-text not available Relationships of parathyroid hormone, parathyroid secretory protein, parathyroid hormone messenger RNA, parathyroid secretory protein mRNA, and replication in human parathyroid adenoma and secondary hyperplasia tissues and cultures.
Surgery [
StringElement('The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationships of extractable and secreted parathyroid hormone (PTH) and parathyroid secretory protein (PSP) in human parathyroid tumors to PTH messenger RNA (mRNA), PSP mRNA, and cell replication.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('In tissue cultures of seven adenomas and five secondary hyperplasias, we found a direct correlation for secreted PTH versus PSP for both adenomas and secondary hyperplasias.
Secreted PTH:PSP was elevated for adenomas (11:1) compared to that of secondary hyperplasias (2:1), and adenomas secreted significantly more PTH and PSP than did secondary hyperplasias.
In extracts of eight adenomas and six secondary hyperplasias, the ratio of PTH:PSP was unexpectedly low (2:1) and similar for both adenomas and secondary hyperplasias.
The ratio of extractable PTH mRNA:PSP mRNA was extremely low for both adenomas (1:7) and for secondary hyperplasias (1:5).
Flow cytometry indicated that percent replication was inversely correlated with PTH mRNA and PSP mRNA.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS'}), StringElement('Increased PTH secretion by adenomas cannot be attributed to increased biosynthetic capacity because it is less than expected.
Hypersecretion of PTH by adenomas and coincident marked reductions in PTH mRNA suggest either a defect in cytoplasmic storage of PTH or impairment of normal posttranslational degradation of PTH. As parathyroid tumor cells increase replication, PTH mRNA is reduced.
Possible explanations for this include decreased PTH gene transcription or decreased mRNA half-life.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
16457154 Currently the full-text not available BAG-1 expression in hyperplastic and neoplastic prostate tissue: is there any relationship with BCL-related proteins and androgen receptor status?
Tumori [StringElement('To evaluate the function and distribution of BAG-1 protein in hyperplastic and neoplastic prostate tissue and establish the relationship between this protein and BCL-related proteins (BCL-2 and BAX), androgen receptor (AR) expression and chromogranin A.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS AND BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Twenty-eight prostatic adenocarcinomas and 16 prostate hyperplasias were included in this retrospective study.
BAG-1, BCL-2, BAX, androgen receptor and chromogranin
A immunostaining was performed by means of standard avidin-biotin peroxidase methods.
The M30 antibody was used to identify preapoptotic and apoptotic cells.
The immunohistochemical histological score (HSCORE) semiquantative system was used to evaluate immunohistochemical staining.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Statistical analysis showed a significant difference in HSCOREs of BAX, M30 and AR between the carcinoma and hyperplasia groups.
Carcinomas expressed higher HSCOREs of these markers than hyperplasias.
There were significant differences in nuclear and cytoplasmic BAG-1 positivity between high and low-grade carcinomas.
BAG-1 expression was higher in low-grade carcinomas.
In the carcinoma group there was a positive correlation (Pearson) between BCL-2 and cytoplasmic/nuclear BAG-1.
In the hyperplasia group there was a negative correlation between BAX and BCL-2, and between AR and M30.
We also detected a positive correlation between AR and nuclear/cytoplasmic BAG-1 and between nuclear and cytoplasmic BAG-1 in hyperplasias.
BAG-1 showed the same specific basal cell localization as BCL-2 in hyperplastic and normal glands.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The BAG-1 protein showed a distinct distribution pattern in hyperplastic and neoplastic prostate.
BAG-1 in association with BCL-2 inhibits apoptosis and may prolong the life of neoplastic cells and give them a chance to gain new oncogenic features in early carcinogenesis.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
11261815 Currently the full-text not available Primary pulmonary primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET).
A case report.
Pathology, research and practice ['We describe a rare case of a primary primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) in the lung of a 17-year-old girl.
Grossly, the tumor, located in the right lower lobe, was relatively well-circumscribed and whitish to yellowish in color with scattered hemorrhagic necrosis.
Microscopically, the tumor was composed of ovoid to polygonal cells with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio and relatively scant cytoplasm, arranged in solid sheets with intervening fine fibrovascular stroma.
Immunohistochemically, the tumor was positive for the MIC2 gene product, whereas AE1/AE3, CAM5.2, and a variety of neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and ProGRP, were negative.
Three months after the lobectomy, recurrent tumors were noted in the mediastinum and right thoracic wall, and she died despite combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
In this case cytogenetic analysis showed a hypertriploid karyotype with multiple numerical and structural chromosomal aberrations, but failed to disclose distinct evidence of translocation between chromosome 11 and 22.
However, the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated EWS/FLI-1 fusion transcripts, confirming the histopathologic diagnosis of PNET.
This case indicates that the primary pulmonary PNET is a highly aggressive neoplasm occurring at a young age, and should prompt combined systemic chemotherapy, even though it is organ-confined.'] 
16608042 Currently the full-text not available Malignant solid and pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas--clinicohistological, immunohistochemical, and flow cytometric evaluation.
Hepato-gastroenterology [StringElement('Solid and pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas is a benign and low malignant potential tumor.
Prognosis is good after surgical resection but its malignant potential is usually defined after metastasis.
We compared benign and malignant cases with clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and DNA flow cytometric studies.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND/AIMS'}), StringElement('From January 1991 to July 2004, seven patients were found to have solid and pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas at Taipei Veterans General Hospital.
The paraffin sections were reevaluated with hematoxylin & eosin stain, immunohistochemical stains, and DNA flow cytometric studies.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODOLOGY'}), StringElement('It included 6 benign and one malignant case.
The progesterone receptor, vimentin, neuron-specific enolase, and
chromogranin A showed diffused positive stain in all cases.
Estrogen receptor and P53 stain were negative in all 7 patients.
Synaptophysin stain was negative in 6 no recurrence patients, but was positive only in the patient who suffered from recurrence.
DNA flow cytometry showed diploid results in six non-malignant tumors.
In the malignant patient, the tumor in the first operation showed diploid result, but tumors in second and third operations showed aneuploidy.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Solid and pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas should be considered as a potentially malignant disease in all patients and regular follow-up is mandatory.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
15592663 Currently the full-text not available Neonatal diabetes, with hypoplastic pancreas, intestinal atresia and gall bladder hypoplasia: search for the aetiology of a new autosomal recessive syndrome.
Diabetologia [StringElement('Neonatal diabetes is a rare disease with several identified molecular aetiologies.
Despite associations with other malformations, neonatal diabetes with intestinal and biliary anomalies has not been described.
The current study aims to describe a new syndrome, and to examine a possible link with one of three genes known to cause neonatal diabetes.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS/HYPOTHESIS'}), StringElement('Five clinical cases are described.
Immunohistochemical staining for pancreatic islet hormones was performed on three of the infants.
DNA from one infant was analysed for abnormalities of the PLAGL-1 (ZAC), glucokinase and PDX-1 (IPF-1) genes.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Five infants (two sibling pairs from two families, and an isolated case) presented with neonatal diabetes, hypoplastic or annular pancreas, jejunal atresia, duodenal atresia and gall bladder aplasia or hypoaplasia.
One sibling pair was born to consanguineous parents.
One patient with a milder form is surviving free of insulin.
Four children died in the first year of life despite aggressive medical management.
Pancreatic immunohistochemistry revealed few scattered chromogranin-A-positive cell clusters but complete absence of insulin, glucagon and somatostatin.
Exocrine histology was variable.
In one case from the consanguineous family, molecular analysis showed no duplication or uniparental isodisomy of PLAGL-1 at 6q24, no contiguous gene deletion involving the glucokinase gene, and no mutation in the coding sequences or splice sites of PDX-1.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('This combination of multiple congenital abnormalities has not been previously described and probably represents a new autosomal recessive syndrome involving a genetic abnormality that interferes with normal islet development and whose aetiology is as yet unknown.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION'})] 
17505000 Currently the full-text not available Temozolomide as monotherapy is effective in treatment of advanced malignant neuroendocrine tumors.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research [StringElement('A retrospective analysis of the toxicity and efficacy of temozolomide in advanced neuroendocrine tumors.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('Thirty-six patients with advanced stages of neuroendocrine tumor (1 gastric, 7 thymic and 13 bronchial carcinoids, 12 pancreatic endocrine tumors, 1 paraganglioma, 1 neuroendocrine foregut, and 1 neuroendocrine cecal cancer) were treated with temozolomide (200 mg/m(2)) for 5 days every 4 weeks.
Patients had previously received a mean of 2.4 antitumoral medical regimens.
Tumor response was evaluated radiologically according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors every 3 months on an intent-to-treat basis.
The circulating tumor marker plasma chromogranin
A was also assessed.
The expression of O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase, an enzyme implicated in chemotherapy resistance, was studied by immunohistochemistry (n=23) and compared with response to temozolomide.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN'}), StringElement('Median overall time to progression was 7 months (95% confidence interval, 3-10).
Radiologic response was seen in 14% of patients and stable disease in 53%.
Side effects were mainly hematologic; 14% experienced grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia (National Cancer Institute toxicity criteria).
Ten patients had tumors with O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase immunoreactivity in <10% of nuclei, whereas four patients showed radiologic responses.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Temozolomide as monotherapy had acceptable toxicity and antitumoral effects in a small series of patients with advanced malignant neuroendocrine tumors and four of these showed radiologic responses.',
attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
12438199 Currently the full-text not available Efficacy of Semliki Forest virus transduction of bovine adrenal chromaffin cells: an analysis of heterologous protein targeting and distribution.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences ['
In using chromaffin cells as a model for studying the mechanism of regulated exocytosis, there is a requirement for an efficient, safe, and robust system for the transduction and expression of heterologous cDNA in these cells.
We have used Semliki Forest virus to transduce cDNAs encoding various proteins fused to enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) into cultured bovine adrenal cells.
Transduction is highly efficient but has no significant effect on the steady state levels of several endogenous proteins or of catecholamines in the transfected cells.
Furthermore, the transfected cells show depolarization-induced calcium currents and nicotine-induced catecholamine release.
We present data to show that virally transduced proteins are targeted to their intracellular locations correctly in chromaffin cells.
The fusion protein pro-ANF-EGFP is specifically targeted to large dense-core vesicles as shown by its colocalization with acidophilic dyes and chromogranin A, making this a useful system for the study of secretory vesicle dynamics.'] 
14657947 Currently the full-text not available hASH1 expression is closely correlated with endocrine phenotype and differentiation extent in pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors.
Modern pathology : an official journal of the United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology, Inc ["
The human homolog 1 of the Drosophila neurogenic achaete-scute genes, hASH1, is specifically expressed in fetal pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and in some neuroendocrine tumor cell lines.
However, no data have been gathered regarding its in vivo expression in tumors.
hASH1
mRNA expression was investigated by in situ hybridization in 238 surgically resected lung carcinomas, and the correlations between hASH1 expression status and immunostaining results of neuroendocrine markers chromogranin A, neural cell adhesion molecule, gastrin-releasing peptide and calcitonin, and clinical outcome were analyzed.
hASH1 expression was detected in 2/20 (10%) adenocarcinomas, 4/30 (13.3%) typical carcinoids, 11/13 (84.6%) atypical carcinoids, 38/67 (56.7%)
large-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas and 56/78 (71.8%) small-cell carcinomas, respectively, but not in any squamous cell carcinoma (0/21) or large-cell carcinoma (0/9).
The 2 hASH1+ adenocarcinomas also expressed multiple neuroendocrine markers.
Thus, hASH1 expression was restricted to lung cancers with neuroendocrine phenotypes.
However, not all neuroendocrine tumors expressed hASH1.
Within the entities of large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and small-cell carcinoma, hASH1 expression correlated very closely with chromogranin A, gastrin-releasing peptide and calcitonin expression (P<0.0001, r=0.852), but was not related to neural cell adhesion molecule expression (P=0.8892), suggesting that hASH1 expression, at least in lung cancer, is associated with endocrine phenotype expression other than 'neuroendocrine differentiation' in a broad sense.
The fact that hASH1 was virtually absent in almost fully differentiated typical carcinoids, but was expressed in most, if not all, less differentiated atypical carcinoids as well as large-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas and small-cell carcinomas, suggests that hASH1 expression in lung cancer imitates its early and transient expression in fetal development, and that hASH1 is instrumental in the establishment, but not in the maintenance, of a cellular endocrine phenotype.
Finally, hASH1 expression correlated with a significantly shortened survival in small-cell carcinoma patients (P=0.041)."] 
14668716 Currently the full-text not available
The role of human achaete-scute homolog-1 in medullary thyroid cancer cells.
Surgery [
StringElement('Human achaete-scute homolog-1 (hASH1) is a transcription factor that is expressed highly in neuroendocrine tumors such as medullary thyroid cancer (MTC).
Thyroid C-cells do not develop in hASH1 knockout mice, which suggests that hASH1 is essential for normal C-cell development.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('To determine the effect of raf-1 induction on hASH1 and hormone production, we used an estrogen inducible raf-1 construct in MTC cell line (TT) cells (TT-raf cells).
TT or TT-raf cells were treated with control or 1 microM estradiol.
After 48 hours, the cells were analyzed for levels of hASH1 and chromogranin
A by Western blotting and for calcitonin production by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Activation of raf-1 in the TT-raf cells resulted in high levels of phosphorylated MEK and ERK1/2, a morphologic transdifferentiation, and a decrease in chromogranin A and calcitonin levels that are associated with a reduction in hASH1 production.
Furthermore, using MEK inhibitors, we demonstrated that these raf-1-mediated changes are dependent on MEK but not ERK1/2 activation.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('hASH1 down-regulation by raf-1 in MTC cells is associated with a significant decrease in hormone production.
Thus, hASH1 appears to be important in the endocrine phenotype of MTC tumors and may serve as a molecular target for the treatment of patients with MTC.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
10770439 Currently the full-text not available Primary mucinous carcinoma of the skin.
The American Journal of dermatopathology ['Primary mucinous carcinomas of the skin are very rare.
To date, 120 cases have been described in the literature.
This tumor is a histologic subtype of sweat gland carcinoma.
Because of the histopathologic appearance, primary mucinous carcinoma of the skin can be mistaken for metastasis from extracutaneous sites.
We report on the cases of two elderly women with mucinous carcinomas arising in the scalp.
Immunohistochemical staining of both tumors was positive for low-molecular-weight cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen.
Carcinoembryonic antigen was positive in Case 2.
Neuroendocrine features represented by neuron-enolase-specific positivity were also observed in both cases, and Grimelius and chromogranin
A positivity were observed in Case 2.
In both cases, there was strong positivity for estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor.
Image analysis cytometry showed a diploid DNA content with a low rate of proliferative cells and negativity for p53 and c-erbB-2 proteins in agreement with the low aggressiveness of these neoplasms.'] 
9591731 Currently the full-text not available Oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms: a report of seven cases and review of the literature.
The American journal of surgical pathology ['Oncocytic neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare.
We describe the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical findings of seven oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms, five oncocytomas, and two oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential.
Three tumors were studied using electron microscopy.
These neoplasms occurred in five women and two men (median age, 55 years) with no clinical evidence that the neoplasms were functional.
The size of the neoplasms varied from 5.0 cm to 13.5 cm.
Histologically, each neoplasm was composed exclusively of oncocytes.
The oncocytomas had very low or absent mitotic activity and no evidence of necrosis.
The two oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential had increased mitotic activity and necrosis but no evidence of invasion or metastases.
Nuclear atypia, either focal or generalized, was found in all neoplasms.
Immunohistochemical studies performed using fixed, paraffin-embedded sections showed strong reactivity with the mitochondrial antibody mES-13 in all neoplasms.
Four of five oncocytomas and one oncocytic neoplasm of uncertain malignant potential expressed keratin, predominantly keratin 18, as shown using the CAM 5.2 and AE3 antibodies.
Two neuroendocrine-associated markers, neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin, were positive in seven and five neoplasms, respectively.
However, all neoplasms were negative for the other neuroendocrine markers tested, including chromogranin A, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase, as well as for epithelial membrane antigen, S100, and p53.
Using the MIB-1 (Ki-67) antibody, proliferative activity was increased in both oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential.
All six patients with available clinical follow-up data are alive without evidence disease, although the follow-up interval is relatively short (< 2 years) for the two patients with oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential.
We conclude that oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms are nonfunctional tumors that can become large before they are detected by radiologic studies.
The majority of neoplasms are benign and should not be misdiagnosed as carcinoma.'] 
15965700 Currently the full-text not available Pediatric embryonal tumor of the cerebellum with rhabdoid cells and novel intracytoplasmic inclusions: distinction from atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
Acta neuropathologica
["We report a case of embryonal tumor with novel inclusion bodies occurring in the cerebellum of a 12-year-old girl.
The tumor was histopathologically composed of small undifferentiated cells intermingled with a small number of rhabdoid cells, which had an ultrastructural feature of intermediate filament whorls.
Immunohistochemically, the neoplasm showed a polyphenotype, including glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, cytokeratin, vimentin, smooth muscle actin, and desmin.
However, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) immunoreactivity was absent.
The MIB-1 labeling index was high (25.6%).
Ultrastructurally, there was no evidence of neuronal or myogenic differentiation.
The small neoplastic cells contained numerous small intracytoplasmic inclusions stained pink by eosin and red by Masson's trichrome stain.
The inclusion body was a densely packed, granulovesicular structure at the electron microscopic level, and was immunoreactive for vimentin, GFAP, desmin, and actin.
Reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry showed the expression of INI1 at the RNA and protein levels, respectively.
In conclusion, this tumor was differentiated from atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor by the absence of EMA and the presence of INI1 mRNA and protein, and diagnosed as an unclassified, embryonal tumor.
Eosinophilic, granulovesicular inclusions of the tumor cells are novel cytoplasmic inclusions in the brain tumor."] 
15870121 Currently the full-text not available Regulation of neuroendocrine differentiation in gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor cells by notch signaling.
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism [StringElement('Gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoid tumors elaborate serotonin and other vasoactive substances, causing the carcinoid syndrome.
Based on developmental biology data, we hypothesized that basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, including achaete-scute complex homolog-like 1 (Ascl1)/hASH1, and the Notch signaling pathway might regulate the neuroendocrine phenotype in GI carcinoids.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'CONTEXT'}), StringElement('The aim of this study was to evaluate expression of developmental transcription factors and Notch signaling components in GI carcinoids and model their interaction in a relevant GI carcinoid cell line.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('Fourteen GI carcinoid tumor specimens, five paired adjacent normal tissues, fetal tissues, and tumor cell lines were analyzed by RT-PCR and immunoblot.
BON carcinoid cells were further analyzed after Notch overexpression for neuroendocrine marker expression, serotonin production, and growth.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'DESIGN'}), StringElement('The study was conducted in an academic referral center.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'SETTING'}), StringElement('Deidentified archival pathology specimens were examined.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'
, 'Label': 'PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS'}), StringElement('Among a panel of six developmental transcription factors tested, only Ascl1 mRNA was overexpressed compared with surrounding normal tissue (seven of 10 GI carcinoid tumors and in BON cells, none of five normal tissues).
Ascl1 protein was also expressed in four of four carcinoid tumors and BON cells).
Notch pathway ligands, receptors, and downstream effectors were widely expressed in tumor and normal specimens.
Overexpression of activated Notch1 in BON cells led to induction of the Notch effector hairy and enhancer of split 1 (Hes1), loss of Ascl1, reductions in neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A, and most significantly, an 89% decrease in serotonin concentration and equivalent reductions in serotonin-reactive cells and repression of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 mRNA.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The Notch signaling pathway is a significant regulator of neuroendocrine differentiation and serotonin production in GI carcinoid tumors.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
24902845 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4061120/pdf/ Identification of longitudinally dynamic biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease cerebrospinal fluid by targeted proteomics.
Molecular neurodegeneration [StringElement("Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia affecting greater than 26 million people worldwide.
Although cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of Aβ42, tau, and p-tau181 are well established as diagnostic biomarkers of AD, there is a need for additional CSF biomarkers of neuronal function that continue to change during disease progression and could be used as pharmacodynamic measures in clinical trials.
Multiple proteomic discovery experiments have reported a range of CSF biomarkers that differ between AD and control subjects.
These potential biomarkers represent multiple aspects of the disease pathology.
The performance of these markers has not been compared with each other, and their performance has not been evaluated longitudinally.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We developed a targeted-proteomic, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) assay for the absolute quantitation of 39 peptides corresponding to 30 proteins.
We evaluated the candidate biomarkers in longitudinal CSF samples collected from aged, cognitively-normal control (n\u2009=\u200910), MCI (n\u2009=\u20095), and AD (n\u2009=\u200945) individuals (
age\u2009>\u200960\xa0years).
We evaluated each biomarker for diagnostic sensitivity, longitudinal consistency, and compared with CSF Aβ42, tau, and p-tau181.
Four of 28 quantifiable CSF proteins were significantly different between aged, cognitively-normal controls and AD subjects including chitinase-3-like protein 1, reproducing published results.
Four CSF markers demonstrated significant longitudinal change in AD: Amyloid precursor protein, Neuronal pentraxin receptor, NrCAM and Chromogranin A. Robust correlations were observed within some subgroups of proteins including the potential disease progression markers.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Using a targeted proteomics approach, we confirmed previous findings for a subset of markers, defined longitudinal performance of our panel of markers, and established a flexible proteomics method for robust multiplexed analyses.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
7999037 Currently the full-text not available Isolation and functional expression of human pancreatic peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['Pancreastatin (PST) is processed from chromogranin A and the C-terminal amide of the peptide is an absolute requirement for biological activities.
Human pancreatic carcinoma cells QGP-1 which produce both chromogranin A and PST were used to isolate cDNAs encoding two forms of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM).
The two forms are a full length bifunctional enzyme and a variant lacking the transmembrane domain-coding region.
When the cDNAs of these two forms were expressed in COS-7 cells, cells transfected with the predicted soluble form released into the culture medium a very much higher amidating activity which converts human chromogranin A-(273-302) to PST-29.
The optimal pH for amidating activity was 5.4 and Cu2+, ascorbate and catalase were required as cofactors for the both forms of PAM. Km values for the membrane-bound and the soluble forms of PAM were 15.7 +/- 3.1 microM and 12.4 +/- 1.6 microM, respectively.
These results demonstrate that both forms of PAM can function in the posttranslational processing of chromogranin A to PST in the environment of a secretory vesicle.'] 
1721614 Currently the full-text not available Newly established uterine cervical carcinoma cell line with co-amplification of human papillomavirus DNA and c-myc gene.
Japanese journal of cancer research : Gann ['A new human tumor cell line, NCC-c-CX-1 (CX-1), was established from a uterine cervical cancer xenografted in nude mice.
This cell line harbored approximately 50 to 100 copies of human papillomavirus (HPV) type 18 DNA per haploid genome, and contained about 16-fold-amplified c-myc gene with rearrangement.
These genomic alterations found in CX-1 cells were also present in both primary tumor and xenografted tumor.
Histopathologically, original and xenografted tumors were poorly differentiated cancer and were characterized by neuroendocrine features such as positive neuron-specific enolase and chromogranin A by immunohistochemistry and abundant neurosecretory-type granules in the cytoplasm by electron microscopy.
However, the established cell line had lost the neuroendocrine features.
This cervical cancer cell line may be a useful model for studying cervical carcinogenesis, especially the interaction between HPV and c-myc oncogene.'] 
11679947 Currently the full-text not available Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 18 cases.
Human pathology ['Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (EMCS) is an uncommon clinicopathologically well-defined tumor, but its pathogenesis and biologic behavior are poorly understood.
We reviewed 18 cases of EMCS to verify clinicopathologic features and immunohistochemical profiles together with molecular detection of the tumor-specific fusion genes.
The tumors were located mainly in the proximal extremities and limb girdles (72%).
Two tumors arose at unusual anatomic sites: the finger and the hip joint.
Nine of the 17 followed-up patients were alive and disease free, 4 were alive with recurrences and/or metastases, and 4 died of the tumor.
Fifteen tumors showed typical features of EMCS, and 3 had hypercellular areas in addition to conventional EMCS areas.
The tumors were variably immunoreactive for S-100 protein (50%), NSE (89%), peripherin (60%), and synaptophysin (22%).
Chromogranin A and some epithelial markers (AE1/AE3, CAM5.2, and epithelial membrane antigen) were entirely negative.
Frequent expressions of the neural/neuroendocrine markers suggest possible neural/neuroendocrine differentiation in at least some EMCSs, in addition to chondroid differentiation.
In a reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay using paraffin-embedded specimens, EWS-CHN or TAF2N-CHN fusion gene transcripts characteristic of EMCS could be detected in 15 (83%) of the 18 cases: EWS-CHN type 1 in 11 cases, EWS-CHN type 2 in 1, and TAF2N-CHN in 3.
Three fusion-negative cases included 2 conventional EMCSs and 1 considered a "cellular" variant of the tumor.
None of 30 other soft tissue and bone tumors with myxoid or chondroid morphology that we examined contained these fusion genes.
Thus, RT-PCR detection of EWS-CHN or TAF2N-CHN fusion gene using archival paraffin-embedded tissue is a feasible and useful ancillary technique for the diagnosis of EMCS.'] 
16855267 Currently the full-text not available Mutant neurogenin-3 in congenital malabsorptive diarrhea.
The New England journal of medicine [StringElement('Neurogenin-3 (NEUROG3) is expressed in endocrine progenitor cells and is required for endocrine-cell development in the pancreas and intestine.
The NEUROG3 gene (NEUROG3) is therefore a candidate for the cause of a newly discovered autosomal recessive disorder characterized by generalized malabsorption and a paucity of enteroendocrine cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We screened genomic DNA from three unrelated patients with sparse enteroendocrine cells for mutations of NEUROG3.
We then tested the ability of the observed mutations to alter NEUROG3 function, using in vitro and in vivo assays.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement("The patients had few intestinal enteroendocrine cells positive for chromogranin A, but they had normal numbers of Paneth's, goblet, and absorptive cells.
We identified two homozygous mutations in NEUROG3, both of which rendered the NEUROG3 protein unable to activate NEUROD1, a downstream target of NEUROG3, and compromised the ability of NEUROG3 to bind to an E-box element in the NEUROD1 promoter.
The injection of wild-type but not mutant NEUROG3 messenger RNA into xenopus embryos induced NEUROD1 expression.", attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('A newly discovered disorder characterized by malabsorptive diarrhea and a lack of intestinal enteroendocrine cells is caused by loss-of-function mutations in NEUROG3.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
9713281 Currently the full-text not available Chromosomal alterations, biological features and in vitro chemosensitivity of SCLC-R1, a new cell line from human metastatic small cell lung carcinoma.
European journal of cancer (Oxford, England : 1990) ["A new human cancer cell line was established from a metastatic lesion of a small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC-R1) and maintained in continuous culture with a doubling time of 62 h. The SCLC-R1 line, whose ultrastructural features are presented, showed a diploid DNA content, a translocation involving chromosome 16 [t(16;?)(q24;?)] and noticeable deletions in the FHIT (fragile histidine triad) region in the short arm of chromosome 3 [del(3)(p14)] and in the telomeric region of the short arm of chromosome 12 [del(12)(p13)].
The involvement of 12p in metastatic small cell lung cancer is reported here for the first time.
No amplification or rearrangements were evident in the c-myc, L-myc, N-myc, int-2, c-erbB-2, H-ras, K-ras, c-mos, and hst-1 genes by Southern blot analysis.
Wild-type p53, RB, K-ras and H-ras genes were evident by polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis.
The neuron specific enolase (NSE) level was much higher in the cell line's cytosol than in the patient's serum and the cell line also had high expression of chromogranin A and cytokeratin 19.
SCLC-R1 cells were sensitive to cisplatin, carboplatin and doxorubicin.
The clinical history of the patient from whom the cell line was derived is reported.
The characteristics of this new cell line indicate it to be a useful experimental model to investigate lung cancer biology and anticancer drug response."] 
15476441 Currently the full-text not available A thyroid nodule revealing a paraganglioma in a patient with a new germline mutation in the succinate dehydrogenase B gene.
European journal of endocrinology ['A 32-year-old asymptomatic female was diagnosed with an isolated thyroid nodule of 2.5 cm diameter.
Fine needle aspiration suggested a medullary thyroid carcinoma.
Consequently, a total thyroidectomy was performed.
The nodule stained positive for chromogranin A, neurone-specific enolase and synaptophysin, but not for calcitonin.
Finally, pathological analysis showed a thyroid paraganglioma.
Although the tumour appeared to be sporadic in a patient with no personal or familial history of paraganglioma and/or pheochromocytoma, we have identified a new mutation (392delC) of the succinate dehydrogenase-B (SDHB) gene in the genomic DNA extracted from the leukocytes of the patient.
That mutation induced a shift in the reading frame of the gene creating a premature stop codon (P131fsX135) which was predicted to result in a truncated SDHB protein of 135 amino acids.
This report highlights the difficulties of this unexpected diagnosis of hereditary thyroid paraganglioma.
It also discusses the clinical involvements in terms of familial screening and the necessary follow-up of the patient.'] 
15979049 Currently the full-text not available Endocrine pancreatic tissue plasticity in obese humans is associated with cytoplasmic expression of PBX-1 in pancreatic ductal cells.
Biochemical and biophysical research communications ['In vivo lineage tracing experiments in mice have recently cast doubt on the potential islet neogenesis from ductal precursors in adult mammals.
We examined, in human obesity, a model for pancreatic endocrine tissue plasticity, the gene and protein expression of PBX-1-a transcription factor expressed in regenerating rat ductules and potentially implicated in the pancreatic development, alone or in association with PDX-1.
When comparing gene expression, by quantitative real-time RT-PCR, in pancreatic exocrine tissue from obese non-diabetic subjects with increased islet mass, we found that Pbx-1 and Pdx-1 were up-regulated (5.9+/-1.2 and 2.4+/-0.6 versus non-obese).
Immunohistochemistry confirmed PBX-1 over-expression and its cytoplasmic sequestration in ductal cells of obese subjects, associated with pronounced islet neogenesis (cytokeratin 19/chromogranin A double labeling).
cDNA microarray analysis also showed up-regulation of other genes implicated in islet regeneration, including betacellulin, laminin, TGFa, NeuroD1, Pax6, substantiating the role of the islet neogenesis pathway in human obesity.'] 
15800938
Currently the full-text not available Interferon-gamma induces neuroendocrine-like differentiation of human prostate basal-epithelial cells.
The Prostate [StringElement('Prostatic neuroendocrine (NE) cells are intraglandular hybrid epithelial-neural-endocrine cells that express and secrete numerous hormones and neuropeptides, which presumably regulate growth, differentiation, and secretory activity of the prostatic epithelium.
This specialized cell type appears to differentiate from a common basal/precursor/stem cell that also gives rise to the secretory epithelium.
In order to elucidate mechanisms of NE-differentiation the effects of type 1 (alpha, beta) and type 2 (gamma) interferons (IFNs) on human prostate basal cells (PrECs) were evaluated.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Application of alpha/beta IFN increased the expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor p21(CIP1) and inhibited DNA synthesis, while only IFN-gamma led to increased apoptosis, cell-cycle inhibitor p27(KIP1) upregulation, and differentiation of PrECs into NE-like cells.
In vitro differentiated NE-like cells expressed the glycolytic enzyme neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and chromogranin A (CgA), known markers of NE-cells in vivo in the prostate.
These NE-like cells also changed cytokeratin (CK) expression patterns by upregulating CK 8/18, predominantly found in terminally-differentiated secretory luminal/NE epithelial cells.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS'}), StringElement('IFN-gamma produced locally in the prostate by basal cells and, under proinflammatory conditions, by infiltrating lymphocytes could support NE cell differentiation and play a role in NE differentiation processes of tumor cells in hormone-refractory prostate cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
15701827 Currently the full-text not available Aberrant expression of human achaete-scute homologue gene 1 in the gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinomas.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research [StringElement('Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) is extremely aggressive, but its pathophysiologic features remain poorly understood.
There have been no biologically specific markers for this disease.
In this study, distinctive up-regulation of human achaete-scute homologue 1 (hASH1) in gastrointestinal NECs was clarified.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'PURPOSE'}), StringElement('Expression of hASH1 in NECs (n=10), carcinoid tumors (n = 10), other tumors (10 adenocarcinomas, 2 squamous cell carcinomas and 1 malignant lymphoma), and the corresponding normal mucosa were investigated by in situ hybridization, reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR), real-time RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN'}), StringElement('By in situ hybridization, mild to intense signals of hASH1 mRNA were detected in 9 of 10 NECs, but not in other tumors or normal mucosa, except for focally weak signals in one carcinoid tumor.
RT-PCR showed strong expression of hASH1 in a small cell NEC, followed by a moderately differentiated NEC, and a carcinoid tumor, whereas it is undetectable in adenocarcinomas or normal mucosa.
By real-time RT-PCR, the amounts of hASH1 mRNA in a small cell NEC were 16,600 times higher than those in adenocarcinomas and 110 times higher than those in a carcinoid tumor.
Immunohistochemically, mammalian homologue of hASH1 was positive in 7 of 10 NECs but was negative in the other tumors.
Pan-endocrine markers chromogranin A and synaptophysin were positive in almost all carcinoid tumors, in 4 and 7 of the 10 NECs, respectively.', attributes={'NlmCategory':
'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('These findings revealed that hASH1 is distinctly up-regulated in gastrointestinal NECs.
hASH1 may be used as a more sensitive and specific marker than conventional pan-endocrine markers for clinical diagnosis of gastrointestinal NECs.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
15980667 Currently the full-text not available Different capabilities of morphological pattern formation and its association with the expression of differentiation markers in a xenograft model of human pancreatic cancer cell lines.
Pancreatology : official journal of the International Association of Pancreatology (IAP) ... [et al.]
[StringElement('New concepts of tumorigenesis favor an unregulated process recapitulating different stages of embryogenic development with dysregulation of transition states.
The aim of our study was to investigate the possibility of differentiation pathways of human pancreatic cancer cell lines in vivo.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS'}), StringElement('Different human pancreatic cancer cell lines (YAPC, DAN-G, CAPAN-1, PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2) were implanted subcutaneously (3 x 10(6) cells) for 28 days in nude mice.
Xenotransplants were characterized with histochemistry (HE, PAS), immunohistochemistry (cytokeratin (CK)7, CK8, CK18, CK19, CK20, vimentin, chromogranin A (Chr-A), alpha1-antichymotrypsin (alpha1-chym), beta-catenin, laminin-5, pancreatic and duodenal homeobox gene 1 (pdx-1), sonic hedgehog protein (shh), Patched (ptc)), Western blotting and real-time PCR (CK7, CK8, CK20, Chr-A, pdx-1, shh, ptc).'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIAL AND METHODS'}), StringElement('Depending on three major morphologic phenotypes of tumor cell xenotransplants (ductal (YAPC), ductal/solid (DAN-G, CAPAN-1), solid (PANC-1, MIA PaCa-2)), a decrease of CK7/CK19 was found, accompanied by an increase of CK8/18 and vimentin.
Predominantly the CK7-positive ductal phenotype (YAPC and DAN-G) was associated with pdx-1 expression, whereas the CK8-positive solid phenotype was associated with shh/ptc expression on protein and mRNA level.
Additionally, CK-20 expression was mainly linked to the ductal phenotype, co-localized with nuclear beta-catenin.
The endocrine-exocrine transdifferentiation, as assessed by Chr-A and alpha1-chym, was on a constant low to moderate level in all xenotransplants.
Finally, an intensive epithelial-mesenchymal interaction was observed by overexpression of laminin-5 at the invasion front.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The observed patterns of morphology and molecular differentiation in human pancreatic cancer xenografts indicate that these cancer cell lines have different capabilities of pattern formation in vivo associated with molecular differentiation markers, especially of embryonic pancreatic development.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
10862758 Currently the full-text not available Aggregation chaperones enhance aggregation and storage of secretory proteins in endocrine cells.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Calcium-induced aggregation has been proposed to play a role in the sorting and storage of secretory proteins in secretory granules of endocrine cells.
The regulation of this process is not known.
Hexahistidine epitope tags were used to create aggregation chaperones that enhance the calcium-induced aggregation of secretory granule proteins in vitro.
Indeed, 100% recovery of the aggregating target protein was achieved without any modification of the target protein.
The aggregation chaperone is not trapped in the aggregates.
Co-expression of His(6)-tagged secreted alkaline phosphatase and the regulated secretory protein chromogranin A resulted in an increased chromogranin storage in secretory granules, and stimulated secretion of chromogranin A increased 50%.
However, secretion of secreted alkaline phosphatase was not affected by the hexahistidine epitope tag.
Thus, calcium-induced aggregation is not a passive process; rather, aggregation and sorting of secretory proteins can be regulated by aggregation chaperones in the secretory pathway of endocrine cells.'] 
16061558 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1736123/pdf/ Phenotype variability of neural crest derived tumours in six Italian families segregating the same founder SDHD mutation Q109X. Journal of medical genetics [StringElement('Mutations in genes coding for the mitochondrial complex II succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) subunits cause familial neural crest derived (NCD) tumours.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Index cases from six apparently unrelated families affected by NCD tumours were analysed for mutations in the SDHB, SDHC, and SDHD genes.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('The same nonsense germline heterozygous mutation (Q109X) in exon 4 of the SDHD gene was found in each of the six families.
Overall, 43 heterozygotes were identified.
These were evaluated for the presence of NCD tumours through radiological examination of the neck, thorax, and abdomen, and measurement of urinary metanephrines and plasma chromogranin A.
A novel missense SDHD variant, T112I, which did not segregate with the Q109X mutation and was not associated with phenotypic manifestations, was observed in one of the families.
Microsatellite analysis showed a common haplotype in all individuals heterozygous for the Q109X mutation, indicating a founder effect.
Overall, 18 heterozygotes were clinically affected by at least one NCD tumour.
Every affected patient inherited the germline mutation from the father, confirming SDHD maternal genomic imprinting.
Penetrance of the paternally inherited mutation progressively increased from 33% to 83% at 30 and 60 years, respectively.
Affected patients showed high clinical variability, ranging from monolateral to bilateral glomus tumours variably associated or not with paragangliomas or phaeochromocytomas.
Loss of heterozygosity was observed in tumour cells isolated by laser capture microdissection.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('This study shows that a single founder SDHD mutation is present in an area of central Italy and that this mutation is associated with widely variable interfamilial and intrafamilial expressivity.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
11358908 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1728320/pdf/
Concurrent occurrence of gastric adenocarcinoma and duodenal neuroendocrine cell carcinoma: a composite tumour or collision tumours ?
Gut [StringElement('Neuroendocrine cell (NEC) carcinoma is occasionally accompanied by adenocarcinoma but the relationship between these two morphologically distinct tumours is unclear.
Two hypotheses have arisen regarding the mechanism for the association of adenocarcinoma and NEC carcinoma.
One is that both are derived from a common multipotential epithelial stem cell.
The second hypothesis is that adenocarcinoma and NEC carcinoma arise from a multipotential epithelial stem cell and a primitive NEC, respectively.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('To elucidate the relationship between the two histologically distinct tumours, adenocarcinoma of the stomach and NEC carcinoma of the duodenum.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS'})
, StringElement('We present a case in which the tumour extended across the pyloric ring, the gastric portion of which revealed adenocarcinoma while the duodenal portion showed argyrophil NEC carcinoma.
The two histologically distinct lesions of the tumour were examined by immunohistochemistry and genetic analysis of p53.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'PATIENT/METHODS'}), StringElement('The gastric region was negative for chromogranin
A staining but positive for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) staining.
In contrast, the duodenal region was positive for chromogranin A but negative for CEA. All tumour regions showed a point mutation in p53 gene at exon 7 (GGC (glycine)-->GTC (valine) at codon 245).
The distal portion of the duodenal tumour showed an additional point mutation in p53 gene at exon 5 (GCC (alanine)-->GTC (valine) at codon 129).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The two histologically distinct tumours, adenocarcinoma of the stomach and NEC carcinoma of the duodenum, appear to be derived from a common epithelial cell.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
15016319 Currently the full-text not available Unique characteristics of rectal carcinoma cell lines derived from invasive carcinomas in ulcerative colitis patients.
Cancer science ['To identify the characteristics of ulcerative colitis (UC)-associated carcinomas, 8 lesions, high-grade dysplasias and invasive carcinomas, were implanted into severely combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice and/or cultured in vitro.
Intramucosal neoplasias consisting of high-grade dysplasia showed extremely slow proliferation after implantation (2/3 cases) and in vitro culture failed (4 cases).
However, invasive carcinomas demonstrated rapid growth both after SCID mouse implantation and in vitro (4/4 cases).
From two cases of invasive carcinomas, 6 cell lines were established, and these are the first to be described in the literature.
In addition to variation in immunohistochemically determined phenotypic expression regarding alpha-fetoprotein, chromogranin A and estrogen receptors, the established cell lines showed varying differentiation (moderately or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with multinuclear giant cells and bone formation).
The results are in contrast with findings for sporadic colorectal carcinomas.
Although the prevalence of DNA alterations is not frequent, loss of heterozygosity (17p and 18q) and deletion of exons 8 to 11 in DPC-4 were revealed in all of 6 cell lines, suggesting relatively high genetic instability.
We found loss or translocation of many chromosomes (#3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 16, 17, 18 and 19) other than chromosomes 1, 5, 8, 11, 13, 17 and 18, which are frequently involved in sporadic colorectal carcinoma cell lines.
Thus, the established cell lines may be good models of tumorigenesis and progression in the chronic inflammation-carcinoma sequence.'] 
12718440 Currently the full-text not available A mutation in the ATP7B copper transporter causes reduced dopamine beta-hydroxylase and norepinephrine in mouse adrenal.
Neurochemical research ['The copper-transporting ATPases Atp7A and Atp7B play a major role in controlling intracellular copper levels.
In addition, they are believed to deliver copper to the copper-requiring proteins destined for the secretory vesicles.
One cuproprotein, dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) functions in the biosynthesis of norepinephrine and epinephrine, neurohormones in endocrine and nervous tissue.
To evaluate the consequences of loss of Atp7B on the function of DBH, the level of proteins in adrenal gland were compared between normal mice and mice containing a null mutation in the ATP7B gene.
The levels of DBH, as well as another vesicular protein, chromogranin A, are reduced in the ATP7B -/- mice.
In addition to the lower level of enzyme, the products of DBH catalytic activity, norepinephrine and epinephrine, are also decreased.
Although these changes are a consequence of ATP7B gene function, Atp7B mRNA is not normally expressed in the adrenal gland.
Instead, Atp7A mRNA is present.
The levels of copper and DBH RNA within adrenals of the ATP7B -/- mice are not different from the wild type.
The results of these experiments suggest that copper-requiring enzymes are affected by a loss of ATP7B even in tissue not normally expressing this protein.
Therefore the multisystemic effects observed in Wilson disease, the human disorder characterized by mutation in ATP7B, may be a secondary consequence of the major accumulation of copper in liver.'] 
1400616 Currently the full-text not available Biochemical and morphological differentiation of the human colonic epithelial cell line SW620 in the presence of dimethylsulfoxide.
Journal of cellular biochemistry ['In vitro models of intestinal cell differentiation provide an important adjunct for studying normal and abnormal intestinal epithelial cell differentiation.
The studies reported herein describe morphologic and biochemical changes in the colonic epithelial cell line SW620 following dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) incubation.
Cells cultured in the presence of DMSO showed striking changes in morphology characterized by enlargement, elongation, and formation of process-like structures by light microscopy and a propensity to form microvillus-like structures by electron microscopy.
These changes were accompanied by significant differences in the expression of the cell surface markers CD4 (HIV gp120 receptor), CD44 (hyaluronate receptor), and KS1 (adenocarcinoma/epithelial specific antigen).
There was a marked decrease in CD4 expression (38% to 2%), an increase in CD44 expression (4% to 50%) and a decrease in KS1 expression (98% to 66%) as detected by flow cytometry following incubation of SW620 cells in DMSO. Parallel changes in the expression of these markers were seen by metabolic and surface labeling studies.
Although SW620 cells were infected by HIV-1, DMSO-treated SW620 cells could not be infected.
DMSO-induced changes in surface expression of CD4, CD44, and KS-1 were reversible over time upon removal of DMSO from the culture medium.
Secretory component, sucrase, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin-A, and mucin were not detectable in SW620 cells with or without DMSO treatment.
SW620 cells provide a useful model for studying specific biochemical and molecular events involved in intestinal epithelial cell differentiation and function.'] 
11876163 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1950011/pdf/
COX-2 specific inhibitor, NS-398, increases macrophage migration inhibitory factor expression and induces neuroendocrine differentiation in C4-2b prostate cancer cells.
Molecular medicine (Cambridge, Mass.) [StringElement('Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is an inducible enzyme involved in the conversion of arachadonic acid to prostaglandins and other eicosaniods.
Persistent COX-2 expression is associated with multiple forms of cancer.
Therefore, there is much interest in COX-2 specific, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use for cancer chemotherapy.
The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit tumor growth and progression is unclear, and our knowledge about their potential to prevent or treat prostate cancer is inadequate.', attributes={'NlmCategory':
'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('The effects of NS-398, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, on human prostate carcinoma cell line LNCaP and the LNCaP subline C4-2b were investigated in this study.
NS-398 effects on apoptosis were examined by caspase-3 activity increase, as well as internucleosomal cleavage.
ELISA and PCR were used to determine inhibitor effects on macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and COX-2 production.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'MATERIALS AND METHODS'}), StringElement('At 10 microM, NS-398 treatment resulted in increased production of COX-2 and the pro-inflammatory cytokine, MIF by the C4-2b LNCaP subline.
NS-398 (10 microM) induces apoptosis in LNCaP cells, but not in the more aggressive, androgen-unresponsive C4-2b cells.
The C4-2b cells were observed to continue to proliferate when treated with NS-398 and continued to retain malignant phenotype characteristics.
NS-398 treatment resulted in C4-2b cell differentiation into an unusual neuroendocrine-like cell.
These neuroendocrine-like cells produced both epithelial (cytokeratin 18 and prostate specific antigen) and neuronal (neuron-specific enolase and chromogranin A) proteins.
Furthermore, this C4-2b cellular response to NS-398 was mediated by NF-kappa beta transcription factor activation.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('These data suggest that COX-2 inhibition induces NF-kappa beta transcription factor activation, which subsequently induces pro-inflammatory protein expression (COX-2 and MIF) and neuroendocrine differentiation in the LNCaP C4-2b subline.
These data provide further evidence that pro-inflammatory protein expression may play an important role in prostate cancer progression.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
12056636 Currently the full-text not available Hybridocytochemical detection of mRNA for calcitonin, CGRP, NPY and somatostatin in thyroid parafollicular (C) cells in three rodent species.
Folia histochemica et cytobiologica ['The present study was aimed at hybridocytochemical (HCC) detection and interspecies comparison of mRNA for calcitonin (CT), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SS) in thyroid C cells of two rodent families of wild Microtidae: pine voles and common voles and also of laboratory Muridae, Wistar rats.
Studies were performed on adult males.
The HCC method in situ and immunomax technique were used to detect mRNA. DNA oligonucleotide probes labeled with digoxigenin were used in the HCC method.
The obtained results were compared to the results of immunocytochemical (ICC) examinations, where rabbit or mouse antibodies against human CT, SS, NPY and rat CGRP, as well as chromogranin A were performed.
In the present study, HCC reaction has demonstrated the presence of mRNA for CT and CGRP in all thyroid C cells in all the species examined.
However, mRNA for NPY and SS was observed in very few C cells in rat and in many more C cells in the two species of wild rodents.
The distribution of the positive cells corresponded with that of ICC detected cells.'] 
10931217 Currently the full-text not available Rhabdoid tumour of the lung is a dedifferentiated phenotype of pulmonary adenocarcinoma.
Histopathology [StringElement('Primary rhabdoid tumour of the lung is rare, and histological and biological characteristics have not been fully documented.
We describe three cases of primary lung rhabdoid tumour, all associated with adenocarcinoma, and investigate the histological features and biological characteristics.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE', 'Label': 'AIMS'}), StringElement('Three cases were obtained from a total 902 cases of surgically removed primary lung tumours between 1986 and 1998.
The rhabdoid cells were found to occupy about 50-90% of each tumour.
All of the tumours had nonrhabdoid adenocarcinoma foci in the centre of the tumours.
Transition between the adenocarcinomatous and rhabdoid components was demonstrated.
Detailed immunohistochemical studies were carried out.
The epithelial markers, cytokeratins and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), were strongly expressed in rhabdoid and adenocarcinomatous components.
Furthermore, surfactant apoprotein A was positive in both components in one case, but myoglobin, MyoD and HHF35 were not expressed.
Vimentin was strongly and diffusely stained in all cases.
The neuroendocrine markers, chromogranin A (all cases), neuron-specific antigen (NSE) (two cases) and CD56 (one case) were occasionally positive in only a small number of the rhabdoid tumour cells.
GM-CSF was positively stained in one case, and the dedifferentiated characteristics of the rhabdoid cells was suggested.
Proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was strongly demonstrated in the rhabdoid tumour cells (all cases).
To gain better understanding the highly proliferative characteristics of the tumours, p53 gene (exons 5-8) mutation was examined by DNA sequencing analysis; mutation of the p53 DNA was not detected.
Overexpression of p53 protein was also not demonstrated in all cases.
HPV6 was demonstrated in one case by PCR method and also non-isotopic in-situ hybridization (NISH).
Two cases died in a short period of time (3 years and 4 months, respectively).', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'METHODS AND RESULTS'}), StringElement('The rhabdoid cells in these three cases were considered to represent the dedifferentiated components of the accompanying adenocarcinoma.
Dedifferentiated characteristics (neuroendocrine markers, GM-CSF, vimentin, and the aggressive behaviour) were evident.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSION'})] 
10639189 Currently the full-text not available STAT3 mediates IL-6-induced neuroendocrine differentiation in prostate cancer cells .
The Prostate [StringElement('In the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP, interleukin (IL)-6 has been shown to regulate both growth and neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation.
We recently observed that IL-6 mediated growth arrest in LNCaP by activating STAT 3.
Since differentiation and growth arrest are often associated processes, we investigated whether STAT3 also mediated NE differentiation in this prostate cancer cell line.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We treated previously characterized clones LNCaP-neo (neomycin-resistant LNCaP) and LNCaP-SF (LNCaP-STAT3 dominant negative mutant) with IL-6 and screened for NE differentiation by observing morphological changes and immunoblotting for two NE markers, neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and chromogranin A (ChA).
To characterize further the role of STAT3 in growth arrest and differentiation, we transfected a wild-type STAT3 vector into PC-3 cells and generated a subclone PC-3-S3.
In this clone, we assessed differentiation by observing morphological changes and determined growth responses by cell counting and clonogenic assays.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('We observed that IL-6 induced formation of neurite extensions, morphologic features associated with NE differentiation, and enhanced expression of neuronal markers ChA and NSE in LNCaP-neo cells.
In contrast, LNCaP-SF, possessing a dominant negative mutant form of STAT3, exhibited no characteristics of IL-6 induced NE differentiation.
Furthermore, expression of a constitutively phosphorylated wild-type STAT3 in PC-3 cells inhibited growth and induced the formation of neurite extensions and NSE expression.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('These results indicate that STAT3 is a mediator of both NE differentiation and growth inhibition in LNCaP and PC-3, suggesting a connection between growth inhibition and NE differentiation in prostate cancer.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
9466151 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies of beta-microseminoprotein in the human gastric mucosa.
The Histochemical journal ['beta-Microseminoprotein is a 10-kDa disulphide-rich protein with unknown function which is present in the mucus of the airways, gastrointestinal tract and urogenital tract.
In this paper, an investigation of the distribution of beta-microseminoprotein in the human stomach is reported.
Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were used.
beta-Microseminoprotein was found to be localized mainly in the antrum part of the stomach and in two types of cells.
Cells of the most abundant type (designated M-cells) were the neutral mucin-containing cells in the bottom part of the gastric glands and the surface epithelium.
Virtually all these cells contained both beta-microseminoprotein mRNA and protein product.
Cells of the second type (designated E-cells) were found in a zone one-third up from the bottom of the gastric glands, where gastric endocrine cells are located.
The E-cells were fewer than the M-cells and usually solitary.
They seemed to have a high concentration of protein compared with their low mRNA level.
The majority of the E-cells contained chromogranin A and gastrin.
The observations made have implications for the understanding of the differentiation of the mucosal cells in the antrum of the stomach and form a basis for future studies of beta-microseminoprotein in gastric disease.'] 
9646033 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine differentiation in Ewing's sarcomas and primitive neuroectodermal tumors revealed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction of chromogranin mRNA. Diagnostic molecular pathology : the American journal of surgical pathology, part B ["Ewing's sarcomas (ESs), primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), and neuroblastomas (NBs) are closely related neoplasms supposedly derived from the neural crest and belonging to the family of the small blue round cell tumors of infancy and childhood.
We investigated the expression of the neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal markers
chromogranin A (CgA) and secretogranin II (SgII) in ESs, PNETs, and NBs, both in primitive tumors (five, nine, and four cases, respectively) and in established cell lines (three ES and two PNET cell lines).
Different technical approaches, namely immunohistochemistry, Northern blot analysis, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used in parallel.
Chromogranin A and secretogranin II production was constantly detectable in NBs by all procedures.
CgA mRNA was detectable in most ESs and PNETs only by RT-PCR, whereas SgII mRNA was detectable in some ESs and PNETs by Northern blot analysis and in all tumors by RT-PCR. CgA and SgII proteins were never detectable by immunohistochemistry in ESs and PNETs.
We conclude that neuroendocrine differentiation is shared by all three tumor entities, being more overt in NBs and rudimentary in ESs and PNETs; traces of chromogranin mRNA are detectable only by a highly sensitive RT-PCR procedure."] 
11321340 Currently the full-text not available Mixed medullary-papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with lymph node metastases: report of a case.
Surgery today ['We report herein the case of a 77-year-old woman found to have mixed medullary-papillary carcinoma in the right thyroid with lymph node metastases 30 years after a left thyroidectomy.
The preoperative values of serum calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were high, and fine-needle aspiration biopsy revealed class V, which led us to suspect papillary carcinoma.
A right thyroidectomy with dissection of the right neck lymph nodes was performed.
Histopathological examination of the tumor specimens revealed gradual borders between medullary carcinoma and papillary carcinoma with positive immunohistochemical staining to calcitonin, chromogranin A, CEA, and thyroglobulin.
The serum levels of calcitonin and CEA decreased to normal after the operation.
The point mutation of the RET proto-oncogene was found to be negative by a DNA analysis of the peripheral leukocytes.
This cancer seemed not to be associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 syndrome.
The presence of both medullary and papillary components in the thyroid with lymph node metastases is rare and may suggest that the tumor had arisen from a common stem cell.'] 
11587555 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine tumor markers.
Frontiers in neuroendocrinology ['Tumor markers used in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with neuroendocrine tumors are in most instances not specific for a given tumor and circulate under normal conditions in the serum, making their use as an early diagnostic tool difficult (low sensitivity).
By combining hormone measurements with tissue responsiveness, demonstrations of inappropriate secretions of PTH, insulin, and gastrin during hypercalcemia, hypoglycemia, and hyperacidity, respectively, become highly sensitive and specific diagnostic tests.
The application of polyclonal antibodies in RIAs of hormones, such as ACTH, insulin, and gastrin, increase the diagnostic level of hormone measurements in patients with neuroendocrine tumors.
Other markers, such as chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, and alpha-subunit, as well as peptide receptor visualization, are of increasing importance in the diagnosis and follow-up of neuroendocrine and non-neuroendocrine tumors.'] 
10699936 Currently the full-text not available Lack of expression for the suppressor PML in human small cell lung carcinoma.
International journal of cancer ['The promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene, which encodes a transformation and growth suppressor, was first identified at the chromosomal translocation break point t(15;17) in acute promyelocytic leukemia (PML).
To determine if the PML gene might be involved in other neoplasias such as lung cancer, PML expression was analyzed by immunohistochemical staining and in situ hybridization.
Considerable PML protein expression in the PML-oncogenic domain (POD) structure was found in adenocarcinomas (ADC) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) of the lung, but was almost completely absent in all the small cell lung carcinomas (SCLC) examined.
In situ hybridization showed that both mRNA and DNA of PML were present in SCLC and in normal lung, suggesting that the decreased protein expression was due to either a defect in translation or protein instability, rather than the consequence of decreased transcription or gene deletion.
Double staining showed that PML expression was inversely correlated with the proliferation marker Ki-67 and positively correlated with levels of apoptotic cells in these tumors.
To determine if the precursor cells of SCLC, the neuroendocrine-producing cells, express PML, double labeling was performed with PML and chromogranin A, a bio-marker for neuroendocrine cells.
Neuroendocrine cells from normal tissues were found to be PML positive, indicating that the lack of PML protein in SCLC is associated with the tumorigenic phenotype and is not the result of cell-lineage specificity.
Thus, the decreased PML expression may play an important role in SCLC development.'] 
2745426 Currently the full-text not available The primary structure of human secretogranin II, a widespread tyrosine-sulfated secretory granule protein that exhibits low pH- and calcium-induced aggregation.
The Journal of biological chemistry ['Secretogranin II (previously also called chromogranin C) is a tyrosine-sulfated secretory protein found in secretory granules in a wide variety of endocrine cells and neurons.
Here, we have determined the primary structure of human secretogranin II from a full length cDNA clone and have investigated its properties, predicted from the sequence, by studying the behavior of purified secretogranin II under conditions characteristic of the milieu of secretory granules.
Analysis of a 2.35-kilobase cDNA clone isolated from a human pituitary library and identified as secretogranin II by various criteria showed that human presecretogranin II is a 617-residue polypeptide containing an NH2-terminal located signal peptide.
Secretogranin II lacks the disulfide-bonded loop structure near the NH2 terminus which is conserved in chromogranin A and chromogranin B (secretogranin I), two other widespread constituents of neuroendocrine secretory granules, but like the latter two proteins contains (i) an -E-N/S-L-X-A/D-X-D/E-X-E-L- motif and (ii) multiple potential dibasic cleavage sites for the generation of smaller, perhaps biologically active peptides.
Another structural feature that secretogranin II shares with chromogranin A and chromogranin B (secretogranin I) is the abundance of acidic residues all along the polypeptide chain whose negative charge must somehow be neutralized to allow condensation and packaging of the protein into secretory granules.
Experiments with purified secretogranin II showed that in the presence of 10 mM calcium at pH 5.2, conditions characteristic of the milieu of neuroendocrine secretory granules, this protein formed aggregates.
Immunoglobulin G, a secretory protein that in vivo is not packaged into secretory granules, did not form aggregates under these in vitro conditions and was excluded from the secretogranin II aggregates.
Very little aggregation of secretogranin II was observed in the absence of calcium at pH 5.2 or in the presence of calcium at neutral pH.
In vivo, ammonium chloride, which is known to neutralize the pH of acidic intracellular compartments, inhibited the packaging of newly synthesized secretogranin II into secretory granules.
Our results suggest that the low pH- and calcium-induced aggregation of secretogranin II may be important for the organization of the secretory granule matrix and raise the possibility that aggregation of secretogranin II may be involved in its sorting to secretory granules.'] 
9890273 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast: a case report of pure type.
APMIS : acta pathologica, microbiologica, et immunologica Scandinavica ['A case of pure neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast occurring in a 51-year-old female is described.
The tumor located in the upper outer quadrant was a relatively well-circumscribed, uncapsulated, yellowish white, rubbery mass measuring 2.5 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm.
Microscopically, the tumor was characterized by solid nest, lobular, trabecular, and insular arrangements of small to medium-sized cells with uniform round to oval hyperchromatic nuclei and pale to eosinophilic cytoplasm.
It showed focal stromal invasion.
The stroma was fibrous and rich in vascularity.
The tumor cells were argyrophilic and positive for cytokeratin CAM5.2, Leu-7, neuron-specific enolase, and chromogranin A. Electron microscopy showed neurosecretory granules.
The tumor was DNA diploid with a low S-phase fraction by flow cytometry.
The axillary lymph nodes were negative for metastasis.
The patient was well and without disease 16 months after mastectomy.'] 
1712329 Currently the full-text not available Establishment and characterization of a human carcinoid in nude mice and effect of various agents on tumor growth.
Gastroenterology ['The authors have established a long-term tissue culture cell line (BON) derived from a metastatic human carcinoid tumor of the pancreas.
The cells have been in continuous passage for 46 months.
Tissue culture cells produce tumors in a dose-dependent fashion after SC inoculation of cell suspensions in athymic nude mice.
BON tumors, grown in nude mice, are histologically identical to the original tumor; they possess gastrin and somatostatin receptors, synthesize serotonin and chromogranin A, and have a doubling time of approximately 13 days.
The antiproliferative effects of the long-acting somatostatin analogue, SMS 201-995 (300 micrograms/kg, t.i.d.), and 2% alpha-difluoromethylornithine on BON xenografts in nude mice were examined.
Tumor size was significantly decreased by day 14 of treatment with either agent and at all points of analysis thereafter until the animals were killed (day 33).
In addition, tumor weight, DNA, RNA, and protein contents were significantly decreased in treated mice compared with controls.
Establishment of this human carcinoid xenograft line, BON, provides an excellent model to study further the biological behavior of carcinoid tumors and the in vivo effect of chemotherapeutic agents on tumor growth.'] 
9778114 Currently the full-text not available Small cell (oat cell) carcinoma of the breast.
Pathology international ['A case of small cell (oat cell) carcinoma, which represents both the most distinctive and the least common type of breast carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation and usually shows the most aggressive behavior, is described.
Radical mastectomy was performed on a 56-year-old female for a 10 cm tumor located in the outer part of the right breast with cutaneous ulceration Microscopically, the tumor predominantly consisted of a diffuse proliferation of small, round to ovoid cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and ill-defined, scant cytoplasm that was reminiscent of oat cell carcinoma of the lung.
There were foci of invasive ductal carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ.
Small cell carcinoma areas constituted approximately 90% of the neoplasm.
The patient had axillary lymph node metastasis.
The small tumor cells were argyrophilic and positive for CAM5.2, carcinoembryonic antigen, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, chromogranin A and synaptophysin.
Flow cytometric analysis showed an aneuploid DNA content.
The patient was alive and well without disease 4 years after surgery.
Small cell carcinomas of the breast may exhibit a spectrum of malignancy that is comparable to similar tumors at better known primary sites.'] 
9600600 Currently the full-text not available Immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, biochemical and in vitro studies of a pineocytoma.
Acta neuropathologica ['Using both tumor specimen and cultured tumor cells, we have studied the differentiation of a pineocytoma by light and electron microscopy (EM) and immunohistochemical demonstration of glial, neuronal and neuroendocrine markers.
Only interstitial cells were labeled with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and anti-S100 protein antibodies.
Synaptophysin, neurofilaments and tau labeling was found in cells forming the pineocytomatous rosettes.
Some cells also bound the anti-tryptophan hydroxylase antibody (TPOH), but no staining was seen after application of anti-chromogranin A or S-antigen antibodies.
EM provided evidence for neurosensory differentiation demonstrating the presence of vesicle-crowned rodlets, cilia (9+0) and fibrous filaments.
In culture, tumor cells proliferated slowly and showed positive immunolabeling for vimentin and TPOH. Expression of mRNA coding for TPOH, serotonin N-acetyltransferase, hydroxyindole-O-methyl-transferase and c-myc was found in the tumor using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
These results demonstrate neuronal differentiation of this pineocytoma and suggest that the neoplastic pineal cells are capable of synthesizing serotonin and melatonin.'] 
9701020 Currently the full-text not available Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast with Merkel cell carcinoma-like features.
Pathology international ['A case of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast with Merkel cell carcinoma-like features occurring in a 38-year-old female is described.
A 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm tumor in the upper-outer quadrant of the right breast was ill-defined, yellowish white and rubbery.
Microscopically, the tumor was characterized by a diffuse proliferation of non-cohesive round cells.
The tumor cells had round nuclei with finely dispersed chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli.
The cytoplasm was generally scant, pale to eosinophilic, and argyrophilic.
There were scattered foci of small nests or intraductal proliferations.
Immunohistochemically, many tumor cells showed positive reaction for CAM5.2, vimentin, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin.
The tumor was also positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Leu-7, calcitonin, S-100 protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein.
Flow cytometric analysis showed that the tumor was DNA diploid.
An axillary lymph node was positive for metastasis.
The patient was well, without disease, for 6 years after mastectomy.
It is suggested that the tumor might originate from ductal cells and show Merkel cell carcinoma-like neuroendocrine differentiation.'] 
9559292 Currently the full-text not available Gene expression of malignant rhabdoid tumor cell lines by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
Diagnostic molecular pathology : the American journal of surgical pathology, part B ['Malignant rhabdoid tumors (MRT) are characterized by unique neoplastic cells demonstrating phenotypic diversity.
By using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, we have detected expression of various genes before and after differentiation induction with four different agents in four established MRT cell lines (TM87-16, STM91-01, TTC642, and TTC549).
The agents used in this study were all-trans retinoic acid (RA), 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), interleukin-3, or interferon-gamma.
Before and after induction, c-myc, IGF-II, IGF-I receptor, and IGF-II receptor were constitutively expressed by all four cell lines.
The neurofilament medium-size (NF-M) was constitutively expressed by the TM87-16 and TTC642, and the S100 protein alpha subunit was expressed by TM87-16, TTC642, and TTC549.
Chromogranin
A was expressed by TM87-16 only after treatment with either TPA or RA. MyoD, N-myc, tyrosine hydroxylase, N-CAM, trkA, and the S100 protein beta subunit were not expressed by any cell line before or after induction with these agents.
All the MRT cell lines in this study except TM87-16 were highly resistant to differentiation induction.
The proliferating cells in TM87-16 and TTC642 expressed mRNA profiles characteristic of neuroectoderm.'] 
8322614 Currently the full-text not available Intra-abdominal desmoplastic small cell tumor in an adolescent suggesting a neurogenic origin.
Acta pathologica japonica ['A case of a desmoplastic small cell tumor of the large omentum associated with gross ascites that occurred in a male adolescent is reported.
Light microscopic studies revealed that the tumor cells were small and epithelioid in nature with eosinophilic hyaline material located in the perinuclear area.
They were surrounded by rich desmoplastic and myxoidal stromal bands.
Immunohistochemical staining revealed globoid perinuclear positivity for desmin.
Vimentin, cytokeratin (AE3, CaM 5.2), epithelial membrane antigen, tissue polypeptide antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, endocrine granule constituent and synaptophysin were also positive in the cytoplasm.
Electron microscopy revealed whorled intermediate filaments and some dense core granules in the cytoplasm.
Bundles of microtubules in the cytoplasmic process and occasional cell junctions of zonulae adherentes in the tumor cells were also observed.
DNA analysis of the tumor cells showed the three-fold amplification of the N-myc gene.
Although desmoplastic small cell tumors showed a heterogeneous pattern with immunohistochemical studies, it is suggested that the tumor may originate from neurogenic cells.'] 
9351988 Currently the full-text not available Olfactory neuroblastoma: detection of genomic imbalances by comparative genomic hybridization.
Acta neurochirurgica ['Olfactory neuroblastoma (esthesioneuroblastoma) is a very rare tumour of the olfactory mucosa.
Morphological features and cytogenetic studies strongly suggest a neuro-ectodermal origin.
Up to now, cytogenetic studies are inconsistent.
Some of them have proposed that the tumour belongs to the pPNET family.
In the present study we describe genomic imbalances in olfactory neuroblastoma in a 46-year-old woman by using the molecular cytogenetic technique--comparative genomic hybridization (CGH)--in order to define the spectrum of genetic abnormalities in the tumour.
The anatomical location and morphological findings were the basis for the diagnosis of esthesionearoblastoma.
Immunohistochemical reactions for NSE, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, HNK-1/Leu-7 and S-100 revealed a characteristic immunophenotype.
The CGH analysis showed multiple changes including DNA overrepresentations of chromosomes 4, 8, 11 and 14, partial DNA gains of the long arms of chromosomes 1 and 17, deletions of the entire chromosomes 16, 18, 19 and X, and partial losses of chromosomes 5q and 17p.
This study represents an early utilisation of the CGH technique in olfactory neuroblastoma and demonstrates that the tumour carries complex chromosomal aberrations.'] 
1617214 Currently the full-text not available Assignment of eight loci to bovine syntenic groups by use of PCR: extension of a comparative gene map.
Mammalian genome : official journal of the International Mammalian Genome Society ['The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been combined with hybrid somatic cell technology to extend the bovine physical map.
Eight bovine loci--
glycoprotein hormone alpha (CGA), coagulation factor X (F10),
chromogranin A (CHGA), low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), human prochymosin pseudogene (CYM), oxytocin (OXT), arginine-vasopressin (ARVP), and cytochrome oxidase c subunit IV pseudogene (COXP)--were assigned to bovine syntenic groups with this approach.
CGA was assigned to bovine syntenic group U2, F10 to U27, CHGA to U4 [bovine Chromosome (Chr) 21], LDLR to U22, CYM to U6, OXT and ARVP to U11, and COXP to U3 (bovine Chr 5).
Seven of these genes, CGA, F10, CHGA, LDLR, OXT, ARVP, and CYM, further delineate regions of chromosomal conservation on human Chrs 6, 13, 14, 19, 20, 20, and 1, respectively.
CHGA, OXT, and ARVP are unmapped in the mouse.
Comparative mapping predicts the mouse CHGA will map to Chr 12, and mouse OXT and ARVP will map to mouse Chr 2.
Furthermore, human CYM is predicted to be sublocalized to 1p32-q21.
The primers developed for these eight loci will be useful for the development of hybrid somatic cell panels in the future as well as establishing a collection of bovine expressed sequence tags.'] 
1448885 Currently the full-text not available Solid and papillary neoplasm of the pancreas.
Ultrastructural pathology ['In two cases of solid and papillary neoplasm of the pancreas (SPN), positive staining for argyrophil granules, chromogranin-A, neuron-specific enolase, chymotrypsin, alpha 1-antitrypsin, vimentin, cytokeratin, and estrogen receptors was present.
Ultrastructurally, neurosecretory as well as zymogenlike granules were demonstrated.
Measurements of mean nuclear volume and volume-corrected mitotic index discriminated between SPN and well-differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, with notably lower values being seen in SPN. Silver-stained nucleolar organizer region counts showed wide overlaps.
The results suggest that SPN is a tumor with mixed endocrine and exocrine features.
Its low malignant potential compared to ductal adenocarcinoma is reflected in the mean nuclear volume and volume-corrected mitotic index.
The presence of estrogen receptors may prove therapeutically useful.'] 
8630875 Currently the full-text not available Olfactory neuroblastoma.
An immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric study.
Cancer [StringElement('Olfactory neuroblastoma is an uncommon neuroectodermal tumor of the upper nasal cavity, microscopic features of which are not always homogeneous.
No morphologic features have been found to correlate reliably with prognosis.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND', 'Label': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Twenty-six olfactory neuroblastomas occurring in 14 females and 12 males, ages 18-78 years, were studied by immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and DNA flow cytometry.
Survival rates were statistically analyzed relative to several variables.'
, attributes={'NlmCategory': 'METHODS', 'Label': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('Microscopically, 22 tumors formed a morphologic spectrum intermediate between paraganglioma (PG) and neuroblastoma (NB).
Others included two ganglioneuroblastomas (GNB), one lesion exhibited biphasic (neuronal and epithelial) differentiation, and one tumor showed predominantly epithelial features.
Immunoreactivity for neuronal and neuroendocrine markers included synaptophysin in 77%, neurofilament protein in 38%, class III beta-tubulin in 81%, and chromogranin A in 77%.
In 88% of cases, elongated S-100 protein-positive cells surrounded tumor lobules.
Cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen immunoreactivity were noted in six (23%) and two (8%) tumors, respectively.
Aberrant p53 expression was detected in 16 tumors (62%).
The Ki-67 labeling index (LI) varied from 0%-43.8% (mean, 7.4%).
Ultrastructurally, 80-230 nm dense core granules were noted within perikarya and as in microtubule-containing processes in all of the 11 tumors studied by electromicroscopy.
Lobules of seven tumors were surrounded by electron-dense sustentacular cells.
Epithelial tumors exhibited obviously epithelial features in addition to neuronal differentiation.
DNA flow cytometry demonstrated a high incidence of polyploidy and aneuploidy (78%) and a wide range of percent S phase fractions (1.5%-21.8%; mean, 9.0%).
The study showed that longer survival rates are related significantly to (1) the occurrence of metastases which was linked to tumor subtype, (2) to a higher incidence of S-100 protein-positive cells, and (3) to a low (< 10%)
Ki-67 labeling index.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS', 'Label': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The present study indicates that (1) although typical olfactory neuroblastomas exhibit PG/NB differentiation, they more closely resemble PG, (2) occasional tumors show GNB and/or epithelial differentiation, and (3) survival rates may correlate with S-100 protein immunoreactivity and Ki-67 LI. Cancer 1995; 76:4-19.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
8745292 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1158661/pdf/ Expression and regulation of a vesicular monoamine transporter in rat stomach: a putative histamine transporter.
The Journal of physiology ['1.
Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs)
translocate monoamines from the cytoplasm into secretory vesicles of endocrine cells and neurones, but they have limited affinity for histamine, and the identity of the vesicular transporter for this monoamine is uncertain.
The aims of the present study were to characterize VMAT representatives in rat gastric corpus, and to determine if their expression was regulated by factors that modulate histamine biosynthesis.
2. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) cloning using oligonucleotide primers to DNA sequences conserved within the VMAT family provided evidence for VMAT2, but not VMAT1 in rat gastric corpus.
Northern analysis using a VMAT2 complementary RNA probe revealed a single 4 kb mRNA species in corpus endocrine cells.
3.
In rats treated for up to 5 days with the H(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibitor omeprazole, VMAT2, histidine decarboxylase and chromogranin
A mRNA abundance in gastric corpus, and plasma gastrin concentrations increased progressively.
Omeprazole also elevated VMAT2 expression in rats fasted for 48 h, but fasting alone, or refeeding fasted animals had no effect.
4.
The results are consistent with a role for VMAT2 in the transport of histamine into enterochromaffin-like cell secretory vesicles, and with upregulation of the transporter to accommodate the increased histamine biosynthesis and secretion that accompanies achlorhydria.'] 
1285276 Currently the full-text not available Analysis of gastrinomas by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry.
Diagnostic molecular pathology : the American journal of surgical pathology, part B ['Gastrinomas from 25 patients were examined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISH).
Most patients (84%) presented with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Six had multiple endocrine neoplasia type I
(MEN-I).
Twelve patients (48%) had duodenal primaries and 11 of 12 of these had metastases to regional lymph nodes and/or liver in spite of the small sizes of the primary tumors (mean size of 0.9 cm).
Five patients had pancreatic gastrinomas and eight patients had metastatic tumor in regional lymph nodes or liver at surgery but a primary was not found.
IHC and ISH analyses showed that all cases were positive for gastrin protein and 24 of 25 (96%) expressed gastrin mRNA that was easily detected in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections.
Both benign and malignant tumors expressed alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin protein (alpha-HCG).
However, only malignant gastrinomas (29%) expressed adrenocorticotropic hormone protein or proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA. ISH and Northern hybridization analysis revealed that chromogranin
A mRNA was the most common member of the chromogranin/secretogranin (Cg/Sg) family which was expressed in both benign and malignant gastrinomas.
These results indicate that duodenal gastrinomas are common in both sporadic and MEN-1-associated cases, and small duodenal primaries may be associated with extensive regional lymph node and liver metastases.
Expression of ACTH/POMC protein and mRNA was consistently associated only with malignant gastrinomas while gastrin protein, gastrin mRNA and Cgs/Sgs mRNAs were readily detected in both benign and malignant gastrinomas.'] 
25939163 Currently the full-text not available HPAC, a new human glucocorticoid-sensitive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell line.
In vitro cellular & developmental biology.
Animal ['A new human pancreatic cancer (HPAC) cell line was established from a nude mouse xenograft (CAP) of a primary human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
In culture, HPAC cells form monolayers of morphologically heterogenous, polar epithelial cells, which synthesize carcinoembryonic antigen, CA 19-9, CA-125, cytokeratins, antigens for DU-PAN-2, HMFG1, and AUA1, but do not express chromogranin A or vimentin indicative of their pancreatic ductal epithelial cell character.
In the presence of serum, HPAC cell DNA synthesis was stimulated by insulin, insulin growth factor-I, epidermal growth factor, and TGF-α but inhibited by physiologic concentrations of hydrocortisone and dexamethasone.
Dose-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis was limited to steroids with glucocorticoid activity.
The inhibitory effect of dexamethasone was abolished by the glucocorticoid antagonist RU 384862 Binding of [3H] dexamethasone to cytosolic proteins was specific and saturable at 4 degrees C. Scatchard analysis of binding data demonstrated a single class of high-affinity binding sites (K(d) = 3.8 ± 0.9 nM;
B(max) = 523 ± 128 fmol/mg protein).
Western blot analysis revealed a major protein band that migrated at a M(r) of 96 kDa.
Northern blot analysis identified an mRNA of approximately 7 kilobases which hybridized with a specific glucocorticoid receptor complementary-DNA probe (OB7).
These findings support a role for glucocorticoids in the regulation of human malignant pancreatic cell function.'] 
2165919 Currently the full-text not available Biology of small cell lung cancer: an overview.
The European respiratory journal ['Despite disappointing results in the treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC), major progress in our understanding of SCLC biology has occurred in the past decade.
Advances in the technique for culturing SCLC tumours in vitro have greatly facilitated the study of the biological properties of this tumour.
The major progress in our understanding of SCLC includes: 1) the availability of nonspecific biological tumour markers such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), the BB isoenzyme of creatine phosphokinase (CPKBB), bombesin/gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) and chromogranin A; 2) the generation of monoclonal antibodies raised against the neural and epithelial features of SCLC tumours; 3) the identification of several autocrine growth factors such as bombesin/GRP, insulin-like growth factor (IGF), transferrin and physalaemin; 4) the close study of cytogenetic abnormalities leading to the discovery of a unique chromosomal deletion of the short arm of chromosome 3 (del 3p 14-21), and to changes in oncogenic expression, e.g. c-myc, L-myc and N-myc, accounting for known biological and treatment results.
These data suggest that all lung cancers arise from a common stem cell of endodermal origin.
The information derived from these biological studies represents the most promising avenue towards new treatment strategies in SCLC.'] 
8044300 Currently the full-text not available Three synchronous carcinomas of the papilla of Vater, common bile duct and pancreas.
Pathology international ['Multiple carcinomas of the pancreatico-biliary tree are rare.
A 53 year old Japanese man was diagnosed as having an adenocarcinoma in the papilla of Vater.
During the operation, he was also found to have a polypoid mass in the common bile duct.
While cutting the operative specimen into stepwise sections, a small tumor was also detected incidentally in the main pancreatic duct of the pancreatic head.
Histologically, all three tumors proved to be papillary adenocarcinomas and were restricted to the mucosa.
Immunohistochemically, all three tumors were positive for carcinoembryonic antigen, carbohydrate antigen 19-9, chromogranin A and serotonin, while they were negative for somatostatin.
Immunoreactivity to the tumor suppressor gene p53 protein (PAb 1801) was found in all three tumors.
A flow cytometric analysis of the cellular DNA content revealed all three tumors to be aneuploid.
The above results suggested that these three tumors from different sites all had the same histological, immunohistochemical and flow cytometrical characteristics.'] 
8305241 Currently the full-text not available Characterization and uptake of radiolabelled meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) in a human neuroblastoma heterotransplant model in athymic rats.
Acta oncologica
(Stockholm, Sweden) ['Cells from an established human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, were demonstrated to grow and form solid tumours in nude rats.
This cell line, which is an adrenergic subclone of the SK-N-SH cell line, has previously been used in differentiation model studies.
The tumours retained the neuronal phenotype of the cultured cells, as evidenced by the expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and chromogranin A + B. The transcription factor Isl-1, a protein expressed in subsets of neurons and endocrine cells as well as in neuroblastoma cells, was also expressed in the transplanted tumours, thus further verifying the retained phenotype of the cells under in vivo conditions.
At scintigraphy utilizing 123I-MIBG the optimal tumour/background ratio was obtained 20 h after injection.
The assessment of tissue/serum ratios showed the highest uptake in the spleen (0.067% per gram of inj.
activity), neuroblastoma tumours (0.067% per gram of inj.
activity) and in the adrenals (0.065% per gram of inj.
activity).'] 
2110701 Currently the full-text not available Solid-cystic tumour of the pancreas.
An endocrine neoplasm?
Virchows Archiv.
A, Pathological anatomy and histopathology ['Immunohistochemical studies and DNA flow-cytometric investigations were performed in a case of solid-cystic tumour of the pancreas in a 35-year-old woman.
All tumour cells were immunoreactive for the neuroendocrine cell markers chromogranin A and neuron-specific gamma-enolase.
Moreover, about 10% of tumour cells were immunoreactive for insulin, while hypoglycaemia was absent.
Few tumour cells (less than 1%) were immunoreactive for somatostatin, and no cells were found to be immunoreactive for pancreatic polypeptide or glucagon.
No immunoreactivity was present for duct cell marker carcino-embryonic antigen and only individual cells were reactive for alpha 1-antitrypsin.
Nuclear DNA content of the tumour cells was diploid and the proliferative activity was low.
In confirmation of some reports on neuroendocrine markers in solid-cystic tumour of the pancreas, our findings support the theory that the lesion is a hormonally inactive neuroendocrine pancreatic tumour.'] 
1924359 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC52634/pdf/
Autoregulation of human thymidylate synthase messenger RNA translation by thymidylate synthase.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Thymidylate synthase (TS; 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate:dUMP C-methyltransferase, EC 2.1.1.45) is essential for the de novo synthesis of thymidylate, a precursor of DNA. Previous studies have shown that the cellular level of this protein is regulated at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels.
The regulation of human TS mRNA translation was studied in vitro with a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system.
The addition of purified human recombinant TS protein to in vitro translation reactions inhibited translation of TS mRNA.
This inhibition was specific in that recombinant TS protein had no effect on the in vitro translation of mRNA for human chromogranin A, human folate receptor, preplacental lactogen, or total yeast RNA.
The inclusion of dUMP, 5-fluoro-dUMP, or 5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate in in vitro translation reactions completely relieved the inhibition of TS mRNA translation by TS protein.
Gel retardation assays confirmed a specific interaction between TS protein and its corresponding mRNA but not with unrelated mRNAs, including human placenta, human beta-actin, and yeast tRNA.
These studies suggest that translation of TS mRNA is controlled by its own protein end product, TS, in an autoregulatory manner.'] 
