29960062 Currently the full-text not available Ctenopharyngodon idella TBK1 activates innate immune response via IRF7. Fish & shellfish immunology [u'In mammals, IFN regulatory factor (IRF) 7 is a central regulator of IFN-\u03b1 expression in response to variable pathogenic infections. There are several pathogenic sensors involved in monitoring pathogen intrusion in mammals. These sensors trigger IRF7-mediated responses through different pathways. TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) is a critical mediator of IRF7 activation upon pathogen infection. In fish, there are many reports on TBK1, IRF3 and IRF7, especially on TBK1-IRF3 signaling pathway. However, it is not very clear how TBK1-IRF7 works in innate immune signaling pathway. In this study, we explored how TBK1 up-regulates IFN, ISG expression, and how TBK1 initiates innate immune response through IRF7 in fish under lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation. After stimulation with LPS, grass carp IRF3 and IRF7 transcriptions were up-regulated, indicating they participate in TLR-mediated antiviral signaling pathway. It is interesting that the response time of grass carp IRF3 to LPS was earlier than that of IRF7. In addition, IRF7 rather than IRF3 acted as a stronger positive regulator of IFN and ISG transcription in Ctenopharyngodon idella kidney cells (CIKs). It is suggested the potential function differentiation between IRF3 and IRF7 upon LPS infection in fish. Dual luciferase assays also showed that overexpression of grass carp IRF7 and TBK1 up-regulated the transcription level of IFN and PKR. However, knockdown of IRF7 inhibits ISG expression, suggesting that grass carp TBK1 regulates the transcription via IRF7. Co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down assays proved the binding of grass carp IRF7 to TBK1. Furthermore, grass carp TBK1 can promote the nuclear translocation of IRF7. The results indicated that grass carp TBK1 can bind directly to and activate IRF7.'] 
29885990 Currently the full-text not available Duck interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) can control duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV) infection by triggering type I interferon production and its signal transduction pathway. Cytokine [u'Human interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) plays an important role in the innate antiviral immune response. To date, the characteristics and functions of waterfowl IRF7 have not been clarified. This study reports the cDNA sequence, tissue distribution, and antiviral function of duck IRF7. The duck IRF7 gene has a 1536-bp open read frame (ORF) and encodes a 511-amino acid polypeptide. IRF7 is highly expressed in the blood and pancreas of 5-day-old ducklings and in the small intestine, large intestine and liver of 60-day-old adult ducks. Indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) showed that over-expressed duck IRF7 was located in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of transfected duck embryo fibroblasts (DEFs), which was also observed in poly(I:C)-stimulated or duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV)-infected DEFs. Titres and copies of DTMUV were significantly reduced in DEFs overexpressing IRF7. Moreover, overexpression of duck IRF7 significantly induced IFN\u03b1/\u03b2, but not IFN\u03b3, mRNA expression, and transcription of downstream interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), such as MX, OASL and IL-6, which were significantly induced by poly(I:C) co-stimulation, was enhanced. Additionally, duck IRF7 overexpression can significantly activate the IFN\u03b2 promoter in DEFs. Collectively, duck IRF7 plays an important role in host anti-DTMUV immune regulation, which depends on type I interferons and associated signal transduction pathway(s).'] 
29222334 Currently the full-text not available 
28977918 Currently the full-text not available Swine IRF3/IRF7 attenuates inflammatory responses through TLR4 signaling pathway. Oncotarget [u'To explore the role of IRF3/IRF7 during inflammatory responses, we investigated the effects of swine IRF3/IRF7 on TLR4 signaling pathway and inflammatory factors expression in porcine kidney epithelial PK15 cell lines. We successfully constructed eukaryotic vectors PB-IRF3 and PB-IRF7, transfected these vectors into PK15 cells and observed GFP under a fluorescence microscope. In addition, RT-PCR was also used to detect transfection efficiency. We found that IRF3/IRF7 was efficiently overexpressed in PK15 cells. Moreover, we evaluated the effects of IRF3/IRF7 on the TLR4 signaling pathway and inflammatory factors by RT-PCR. Transfected cells were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) alone, or in combination with a TBK1 inhibitor (LiCl). We revealed that IRF3/IRF7 enhanced IFN\u03b1 production, and decreased IL-6 mRNA expression. Blocking the TBK1 pathway, inhibited the changes in IFN\u03b1, but not IL-6 mRNA. This illustrated that IRF3/IRF7 enhanced IFN\u03b1 production through TLR4/TBK1 signaling pathway and played an anti-inflammatory role, while IRF3/IRF7 decreased IL-6 expression independent of the TBK1 pathway. Trends in MyD88, TRAF6, TBK1 and NF\u03baB mRNA variation were similar in all treatments. LPS increased MyD88, TRAF6, TBK1 and NF\u03baB mRNA abundance in PBR3/PBR7 and PBv cells, while LiCl blocked the LPS-mediated effects. The levels of these four factors in PBR3/PBR7 cells were higher than those in PBv. These results demonstrated that IRF3/IRF7 regulated the inflammatory response through the TLR4 signaling pathway. Overexpression of swine IRF3/IRF7 in PK15 cells induced type I interferons production, and attenuated inflammatory responses through TLR4 signaling pathway.'] 
29427864 Currently the full-text not available Seneca Valley Virus 3C<sup>pro</sup> abrogates the IRF3- and IRF7-mediated innate immune response by degrading IRF3 and IRF7. Virology [u"Seneca Valley Virus (SVV) is a newly emerged virus belonging to the family Picornaviridae. Basic knowledge of the immunological response to SVV is limited. To date, one study has demonstrated that SVV 3C<sup>pro</sup> mediates the cleavage of host MAVS, TRIF, and TANK at specific sites and consequently escapes the host's antiviral innate immunity. In this study, we show that SVV 3C<sup>pro</sup> reduces IRF3 and IRF7 protein expression level and phosphorylation. SVV infection also reduces expression of IRF3 and IRF7 protein. The degradation of IRF3 and IRF7 is dependent on the 3C<sup>pro</sup> protease activity. We also identify interactions between 3C<sup>pro</sup> and IRF3 and IRF7 in PK-15 cells. A detailed analysis revealed that the degradation of IRF3 and IRF7 blocks the transcription of IFN-\u03b2, IFN-\u03b11, IFN-\u03b14, and ISG54. Together, our results demonstrate a novel mechanism developed by SVV 3C<sup>pro</sup> to allow the virus to escape the host's intrinsic innate immune system."] 
