30218682
Currently the full-text not available Superior Efficacy
of HI-6 Dimethanesulfonate Over Pralidoxime Methylsulfate Against Russian VX Poisoning in Cynomolgus Monkeys (Macaca fascicularis).
Toxicology [
u'Organophosphorus nerve agents still represent a serious risk to human health.
In the French armed forces, the current emergency treatment against OP intoxications is a fully licensed wet-dry dual-chambered autoinjector (Ineurope \xae), that contains pralidoxime methylsulfate (2-PAM) to reactivate inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE), atropine sulfate (AS) and avizafone chlorhydrate (AVZ).
While this treatment is effective against several of the known nerve agents, it shows little efficacy against the Russian VX (VR), one of the most toxic compounds.
HI-6 dimethanesulfonate (HI-6 DMS) is an oxime able to reactivate in vitro and in vivo VR-inhibited AChE.
To confirm the superiority of HI-6 DMS towards 2-PAM prior to licensing, we compared the two 3-drug-combinations (HI-6 vs 2-PAM, 33 and 18\u2009mg/kg respectively, equimolar doses; AS/AVZ 0.25/0.175\u2009mg/kg respectively) in VR-poisoned cynomolgus macaques, the model required by the French drug regulatory agency.
In parallel we performed HI-6 pharmacokinetics analysis using a one compartment model.
A better efficacy of the HI-6 DMS combination was clearly observed: up to 5 LD
<sub>50</sub> of VR (i.m.), a single administration of the HI-6 DMS combination, shortly after the onset of clinical signs, prevented death of the four intoxicated animals.
Conversely 2-PAM only prevented death in one out of three subjects exposed to the same amount of VR.
As expected with V agents, reinhibition of blood AChE was observed but without any apparent impact on the clinical recovery of the animals.
A single administration of the HI-6 DMS combination was still but partially effective at 15 LD<sub>50</sub> of VR, allowing a 50 % survival rate.'] 
30064362 Currently the full-text not available HiCcompare: an R-package for joint normalization and comparison of HI-C datasets.
BMC bioinformatics
[StringElement('Changes in spatial chromatin interactions are now emerging as a unifying mechanism orchestrating the regulation of gene expression.
Hi-C sequencing technology allows insight into chromatin interactions on a genome-wide scale.
However, Hi-C data contains many DNA sequence- and technology-driven biases.
These biases prevent effective comparison of chromatin interactions aimed at identifying genomic regions differentially interacting between, e.g., disease-normal states or different cell types.
Several methods have been developed for normalizing individual Hi-C datasets.
However, they fail to account for biases between two or more Hi-C datasets, hindering comparative analysis of chromatin interactions.',
attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'BACKGROUND', u'Label': u'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We developed a simple and effective method, HiCcompare, for the joint normalization and differential analysis of multiple Hi-C datasets.
The method introduces a distance-centric analysis and visualization of the differences between two Hi-C datasets on a single plot that allows for a data-driven normalization of biases using locally weighted linear regression (loess).
HiCcompare outperforms methods for normalizing individual Hi-C datasets and methods for differential analysis (diffHiC, FIND) in detecting a priori known chromatin interaction differences while preserving the detection of genomic structures, such as A/B compartments.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'RESULTS', u'Label': u'RESULTS'}), StringElement('HiCcompare is able to remove between-dataset bias present in Hi-C matrices.
It also provides a user-friendly tool to allow the scientific community to perform direct comparisons between the growing number of pre-processed Hi-C datasets available at online repositories.
HiCcompare is freely available as a Bioconductor R package https://bioconductor.org/packages/HiCcompare/ .'
, attributes={u'NlmCategory':
u'CONCLUSIONS', u'Label': u'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
