Sixty years of CA: a cancer journal for clinicians. 21075954 CA: a cancer journal for clinicians ['The first issue of CA: A Cancer Journal for Clinicians was published in November of 1950. On the 60th anniversary of that date, we briefly review several seminal contributions to oncology and cancer control published in our journal during its first decade.'] 
Timely follow-up of positive cancer screening results: A systematic review and recommendations from the PROSPR Consortium. 29603147 CA: a cancer journal for clinicians ['Timely follow-up for positive cancer screening results remains suboptimal, and the evidence base to inform decisions on optimizing the timeliness of diagnostic testing is unclear. This systematic review evaluated published studies regarding time to follow-up after a positive screening for breast, cervical, colorectal, and lung cancers. The quality of available evidence was very low or low across cancers, with potential attenuated or reversed associations from confounding by indication in most studies. Overall, evidence suggested that the risk for poorer cancer outcomes rises with longer wait times that vary within and across cancer types, which supports performing diagnostic testing as soon as feasible after the positive result, but evidence for specific time targets is limited. Within these limitations, we provide our opinion on cancer-specific recommendations for times to follow-up and how existing guidelines relate to the current evidence. Thresholds set should consider patient worry, potential for loss to follow-up with prolonged wait times, and available resources. Research is needed to better guide the timeliness of diagnostic follow-up, including considerations for patient preferences and existing barriers, while addressing methodological weaknesses. Research is also needed to identify effective interventions for reducing wait times for diagnostic testing, particularly in underserved or low-resource settings. CA Cancer J Clin 2018;68:199-216. © 2018 American Cancer Society.'] 
Recent progress in Lynch syndrome and other familial colorectal cancer syndromes. 29485237 CA: a cancer journal for clinicians ['The current understanding of familial colorectal cancer was limited to descriptions of affected pedigrees until the early 1990s. A series of landscape-altering discoveries revealed that there were distinct forms of familial cancer, and most were related to genes previously not known to be involved in human disease. This review largely focuses on advances in our understanding of Lynch syndrome because of the unique relationship of this disease to defective DNA mismatch repair and the clinical implications this has for diagnostics, prevention, and therapy. Recent advances have occurred in our understanding of the epidemiology of this disease, and the advent of broad genetic panels has altered the approach to germline and somatic diagnoses for all of the familial colorectal cancer syndromes. Important advances have been made toward a more complete mechanistic understanding of the pathogenesis of neoplasia in the setting of Lynch syndrome, and these advances have important implications for prevention. Finally, paradigm-shifting approaches to treatment of Lynch-syndrome and related tumors have occurred through the development of immune checkpoint therapies for hypermutated cancers. CA Cancer J Clin 2018;68:217-231. © 2018 American Cancer Society.'] 
The oncologic burden of hepatitis C virus infection: A clinical perspective. 28683174 CA: a cancer journal for clinicians ['Answer questions and earn CME/CNE Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection affects millions of people worldwide and is associated with cancer. Direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) have changed HCV treatment paradigms, but little is known about the management of HCV infection in patients with cancer. The substantial burden of HCV infection and the inconclusive evidence regarding its detection and management in patients with cancer prompted the authors to review the literature and formulate recommendations. Patients for whom HCV screening is recommended included all patients with hematologic malignancies, hematopoietic cell transplantation candidates, and patients with liver cancer. There is a lack of consensus-based recommendations for the identification of HCV-infected patients with other types of cancer, but physicians may at least consider screening patients who belong to groups at heightened risk of HCV infection, including those born during 1945 through 1965 and those at high risk for infection. Patients with evidence of HCV infection should be assessed by an expert to evaluate liver disease severity, comorbidities associated with HCV infection, and treatment opportunities. DAA therapy should be tailored on the basis of patient prognosis, type of cancer, cancer treatment plan, and hepatic and virologic parameters. HCV-infected patients with cancer who have cirrhosis (or even advanced fibrosis) and those at risk for liver disease progression, especially patients with HCV-associated comorbidities, should have ongoing follow-up, regardless of whether there is a sustained virologic response, to ensure timely detection and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. HCV infection and its treatment should not be considered contraindications to cancer treatment and should not delay the initiation of an urgent cancer therapy. CA Cancer J Clin 2017. © 2017 American Cancer Society. CA Cancer J Clin 2017;67:411-431. © 2017 American Cancer Society.'] 
A review of family caregiving intervention trials in oncology. 28319263 CA: a cancer journal for clinicians ['This article contains a review of literature published from 2010 to 2016 on family caregiving in oncology. An analysis of 810 citations resulted in 50 randomized trials. These trials describe the need to prepare family caregivers for the complex role they play in cancer care. Several studies have demonstrated improved quality of life for family caregivers and improved emotional support from interventions. Several studies addressed communication and relational intimacy, which are key concerns. An additional focus of these trials was in the area of caregiving tasks and ways to diminish the burden of caregiving and preparedness for this role. Further research is needed in this area given the shift to outpatient care and as family caregivers become the primary providers of care. Future research should include expanding tested models of family caregiver support in clinical practice and in diverse populations. CA Cancer J Clin 2017. © 2017 American Cancer Society. CA Cancer J Clin 2017;67:318-325. © 2017 American Cancer Society.'] 
