IRF2-INPP4B axis participates in the development of acute myeloid leukemia by regulating cell growth and survival. 28579269 Gene ['Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a highly heterogeneous disease, which results in the fact that patient management has remained disappointingly uniform. Therefore, the molecular mechanism underlying AML needs to be further investigated. Here in this study, we identify the interferon-regulatory factor 2 (IRF2) as a novel regulator in human AML. We show that IRF2 knockdown inhibits growth, colony formation of OCI/AML-2, OCI/AML-3, and THP-1 cells. In addition, IRF2 knockdown induces apoptosis of AML cells by regulating the apoptotic effectors Bcl-2, Bax and Caspase 3. Further mechanism analysis shows that inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase, type-II (INPP4B) contributes to the effects of IRF2 on apoptosis and growth of AML cells. IRF2 binds INPP4B promoter and promotes INPP4B expression in AML cells. Restoration of the expression of INPP4B blocks the effects of IRF2 knockdown on apoptosis and colony formation in OCI/AML-2 and OCI/AML-3 cells. In conclusion, IRF2 serves as an important regulator in AML by targeting INPP4B. Therefore, IRF2 may be a potential target for AML treatment.'] 
Hsa-miR-513b-5p suppresses cell proliferation and promotes P53 expression by targeting IRF2 in testicular embryonal carcinoma cells. 28512062 Gene ['Previous studies have reported the miR-513b is located on the X chromosome and is preferentially expressed in testis. However, the underlying mechanisms of miR-513b involved in spermatogenesis remains unknown. In this study, we found that hsa-miR-513b-5p was highly expressed in the testes of infertile males with maturation arrest compared with normal controls. Overexpression of hsa-miR-513b-5p suppressed testicular embryonal carcinoma (NT2) cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in vitro, whereas silencing of hsa-miR-513b-5p reversed these effects. In addition, we found that interferon regulatory transcription factor 2 (IRF2) was a direct and functional target of hsa-miR-513b-5p. Silencing of endogenous IRF2 enhanced hsa-miR-513b-5p-mediated effects on cell proliferation in NT2 cells, whereas overexpression of IRF2 reversed these effects. Moreover, immunoblotting showed that overexpression of hsa-miR-513b-5p or silencing of endogenous IRF2 could promote the expression of P53. Moreover, overexpression of hsa-miR-513b-5p in the absence of p53 could also induce cell apoptosis. Together, our results suggest that hsa-miR-513b-5p suppresses NT2 cell proliferation and promotes P53 protein expression by targeting IRF2, and abnormal testicular hsa-miR-513b-5p expression may contribute to maturation arrest.'] 
Division of labor between IRF1 and IRF2 in regulating different stages of transcriptional activation in cellular antiviral activities. 25960866 Cell & bioscience [StringElement('Cellular antiviral activities are critically controlled by transcriptional activation of interferon-inducible genes, involving interferon regulatory factors (IRFs). Previous data suggested that IRF1 is an activator and IRF2 is a repressor, which functionally antagonize each other in transcriptional regulation. However, it is not clear how these two factors function to regulate cellular antiviral activities.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'BACKGROUND', u'Label': u'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('We show that IRF2 is critically required for the induction of the TLR3 and other interferon-inducible genes in a chromatin environment. While both IRF1 and IRF2 directly interact with the BAF chromatin remodeling complex, IRF2 is associated with the TLR3 promoter in the unstimulated state and IRF1 binding to the promoter is strongly induced by stimulation with interferon, suggesting that these two factors may function at different stages of gene induction in the recruitment of the BAF complex. IRF2 acts to maintain the basal level expression, an open chromatin structure, and active histone modification marks (H3K9, K14 acetylation and H3K4 tri-methylation) of the TLR3 promoter in the unstimulated state, while IRF1 serves to rapidly activate the promoter upon stimulation.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'RESULTS', u'Label': u'RESULTS'}), StringElement('IRF1 and IRF2 of the IRF family of transcription factors play distinct roles in cellular response to viral infection. IRF2 binds to TLR3 and other IFN-inducible gene promoters and maintains an active chromatin structure in the unstimulated state, which is required for their induction, while IRF1 binding to these promoters activates their transcription upon viral infection. Thus, the division of labor between the IRF transcription factor family members plays a pivotal role in coordinating the transcriptional activation in the cellular antiviral response.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'CONCLUSIONS', u'Label': u'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
MicroRNA-18a modulates P53 expression by targeting IRF2 in gastric cancer patients. 26173586 Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology [StringElement('MicroRNA-18a (miR-18a) has been reported to be upregulated in gastric cancer (GC) tissues compared with normal gastric tissues. However, little is known about its prognostic value and biological roles.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'OBJECTIVE', u'Label': u'BACKGROUND AND AIM'}), StringElement('In this study, miR-18a expression in gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) tissues and adjacent non-tumor tissues was validated by in situ hybridization, and the predictive values of miR-18a were explored. The biological roles of miR-18a and the underlying signal pathway were investigated in GC cell lines.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'METHODS', u'Label': u'METHODS'}), StringElement("Overexpressed intra-tumoral miR-18a was associated with poor survival rate and was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival rate (P < 0.001) in GC patients. Forced expression of miR-18a remarkably enhanced cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in GC cells, while inhibition of miR-18a caused the opposite effects. Further study showed that miR-18a suppressed the expression of interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2) by directly binding to its 3'-untranslated region. Moreover, miR-18a expression levels are inversely correlated with IRF2 in human GC tissues. Western blot showed that forced expression of miR-18a could not only downregulate the expression of IRF2, but also inhibit the expression of P53, suggesting that IRF2 might play as a tumor suppressor by regulating P53 signaling in GC.", attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'RESULTS', u'Label': u'RESULTS'}), StringElement('miR-18a modulated P53 expression by directly targeting IRF2 and had a high predictive value for prognosis of GAC patients. These results may lead to identification of therapeutic candidates of GC.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'CONCLUSIONS', u'Label': u'CONCLUSION'})] 
Triad of human cellular proteins, IRF2, FAM111A, and RFC3, restrict replication of orthopoxvirus SPI-1 host-range mutants. 28320935 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ['Viruses and their hosts can reach balanced states of evolution ensuring mutual survival, which makes it difficult to appreciate the underlying dynamics. To uncover hidden interactions, virus mutants that have lost defense genes may be used. Deletion of the gene that encodes serine protease inhibitor 1 (SPI-1) of rabbitpox virus and vaccinia virus, two closely related orthopoxviruses, prevents their efficient replication in human cells, whereas certain other mammalian cells remain fully permissive. Our high-throughput genome-wide siRNA screen identified host factors that prevent reproduction and spread of the mutant viruses in human cells. More than 20,000 genes were interrogated with individual siRNAs and those that prominently increased replication of the SPI-1 deletion mutant were subjected to a secondary screen. The top hits based on the combined data-replication factor C3 (RFC3), FAM111A, and interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2)-were confirmed by custom assays. The siRNAs to RFC1, RFC2, RFC4, and RFC5 mRNAs also enhanced spread of the mutant virus, strengthening the biological significance of the RFC complex as a host restriction factor for poxviruses. Whereas association with proliferating cell nuclear antigen and participation in processive genome replication are common features of FAM111A and RFC, IRF2 is a transcriptional regulator. Microarray analysis, quantitative RT-PCR, and immunoblotting revealed that IRF2 regulated the basal level expression of FAM111A, suggesting that the enhancing effect of depleting IRF2 on replication of the SPI-1 mutant was indirect. Thus, the viral SPI-1 protein and the host IRF2, FAM111A, and RFC complex likely form an interaction network that influences the ability of poxviruses to replicate in human cells.'] 
