28334992 Currently the full-text not available Utility of chromogranin B compared with chromogranin A as a biomarker in Japanese patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Japanese journal of clinical oncology [StringElement('Currently, serum chromogranin A is a well-established biomarker for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors; however, other pancreatic diseases, oral use of a proton pump inhibitor and renal impairment can affect chromogranin A. Meanwhile, chromogranin B, belonging to the same granin family as chromogranin A, is not fully examined in these conditions. The present study aimed to evaluate the utility of chromogranin B as a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor biomarker.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED', 'Label': 'Objective'}), StringElement('Serum chromogranin B levels were determined by radioimmunoassay and serum chromogranin A levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (n = 91) and other pancreatic conditions, and in healthy people (n = 104), to assess the relationships with clinical features.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED', 'Label': 'Methods'}), StringElement('The diagnostic ability of chromogranin B was as good as chromogranin A. The area under the curve was 0.79 for chromogranin B (sensitivity/specificity: 72%/77%), and 0.78 for chromogranin A (sensitivity/specificity: 79%/64%). Chromogranin B was not affected by proton pump inhibitor use and age, which affected chromogranin A. The number of cases without liver metastases was larger in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor patients with positive chromogranin B and negative chromogranin A. Though chromogranin A significantly elevated cases with proton pump inhibitor treatment and had positive correlation with age, chromogranin B did not have the tendencies. However, both chromogranin B and chromogranin A elevated in the case with renal impairment. In addition, the logistic regression analysis showed that chromogranin B was superior to chromogranin A in differentiation of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor from other pancreatic diseases.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED', 'Label': 'Results'}), StringElement('Compared with chromogranin A, chromogranin B may be more useful during proton pump inhibitor treatment and can detect tumors without liver metastases. In addition, chromogranin B may be an excellent biomarker when differentiation of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor from other pancreatic diseases is required.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED', 'Label': 'Conclusions'})] 