29361988 Currently the full-text not available Black tea aroma inhibited increase of salivary chromogranin-A after arithmetic tasks. Journal of physiological anthropology [StringElement('Growing attention has been paid to the effects of food flavor components on alleviating negative brain functions caused by stressful lifestyles. In this study, we investigated the alleviating effect of two kinds of black tea aromas on physical and psychological stress induced by the Uchida-Kraepelin test, based on salivary chromogranin-A (CgA) levels as a stress marker and subjective evaluations (Profile of Mood States).', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Compared with the water exposure control, inhaling black tea aroma (Darjeeling and Assam in this study) induced lower salivary CgA concentration levels after 30\xa0min of mental stress load tasks. This anti-stress effect of black tea aroma did not differ between the two tea types even though the concentration of the anti-stress components in the Darjeeling tea aroma was higher than that in the Assam aroma. However, Darjeeling tea aroma tended to decrease the tension and/or anxiety score immediately after the first exposure.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('Inhaling black tea aroma may diminish stress levels caused by arithmetic mental stress tasks, and Darjeeling tea aroma tended to improve mood before mental stress load.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
28975588 Currently the full-text not available Glycosylated Chromogranin A: Potential Role in the Pathogenesis of Heart Failure. Current heart failure reports [StringElement('Endocrine and paracrine factors influence the cardiovascular system and the heart by a number of different mechanisms. The chromogranin-secretogranin (granin) proteins seem to represent a new family of proteins that exerts both direct and indirect effects on cardiac and vascular functions. The granin proteins are produced in multiple tissues, including cardiac cells, and circulating granin protein concentrations provide incremental prognostic information to established risk indices in patients with myocardial dysfunction. In this review, we provide recent data for the granin proteins in relation with cardiovascular disease, and with a special focus on chromogranin A and heart failure.', attributes={'Label': 'PURPOSE OF REVIEW'}), StringElement('Chromogranin A is the most studied member of the granin protein family, and shorter, functionally active peptide fragments of chromogranin A exert protective effects on myocardial cell death, ischemia-reperfusion injury, and cardiomyocyte Ca<sup>2+</sup> handling. Granin peptides have also been found to induce angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Protein glycosylation is an important post-translational regulatory mechanism, and we recently found chromogranin A molecules to be hyperglycosylated in the failing myocardium. Chromogranin A hyperglycosylation impaired processing of full-length chromogranin A molecules into physiologically active chromogranin A peptides, and patients with acute heart failure and low rate of chromogranin A processing had increased mortality compared to other acute heart failure patients. Other studies have also demonstrated that circulating granin protein concentrations increase in parallel with heart failure disease stage. The granin protein family seems to influence heart failure pathophysiology, and chromogranin A hyperglycosylation could directly be implicated in heart failure disease progression.', attributes={'Label': 'RECENT FINDINGS'})] 
28334992 Currently the full-text not available Utility of chromogranin B compared with chromogranin A as a biomarker in Japanese patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Japanese journal of clinical oncology [StringElement('Currently, serum chromogranin A is a well-established biomarker for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors; however, other pancreatic diseases, oral use of a proton pump inhibitor and renal impairment can affect chromogranin A. Meanwhile, chromogranin B, belonging to the same granin family as chromogranin A, is not fully examined in these conditions. The present study aimed to evaluate the utility of chromogranin B as a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor biomarker.', attributes={'Label': 'Objective', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'}), StringElement('Serum chromogranin B levels were determined by radioimmunoassay and serum chromogranin A levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (n = 91) and other pancreatic conditions, and in healthy people (n = 104), to assess the relationships with clinical features.', attributes={'Label': 'Methods', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'}), StringElement('The diagnostic ability of chromogranin B was as good as chromogranin A. The area under the curve was 0.79 for chromogranin B (sensitivity/specificity: 72%/77%), and 0.78 for chromogranin A (sensitivity/specificity: 79%/64%). Chromogranin B was not affected by proton pump inhibitor use and age, which affected chromogranin A. The number of cases without liver metastases was larger in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor patients with positive chromogranin B and negative chromogranin A. Though chromogranin A significantly elevated cases with proton pump inhibitor treatment and had positive correlation with age, chromogranin B did not have the tendencies. However, both chromogranin B and chromogranin A elevated in the case with renal impairment. In addition, the logistic regression analysis showed that chromogranin B was superior to chromogranin A in differentiation of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor from other pancreatic diseases.', attributes={'Label': 'Results', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'}), StringElement('Compared with chromogranin A, chromogranin B may be more useful during proton pump inhibitor treatment and can detect tumors without liver metastases. In addition, chromogranin B may be an excellent biomarker when differentiation of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor from other pancreatic diseases is required.', attributes={'Label': 'Conclusions', 'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
28618990 Currently the full-text not available Biological Roles of the Eclectic Chromogranin-A-derived Peptide Catestatin. Current medicinal chemistry [StringElement('Research on Chromogranin A (CGA) and its derived fragments convincingly demonstrated the multifunctional activity of the 21 amino acid peptide named Catestatin (CST: human CGA352-372, bovine CGA344-364, rat CGA367-387). This review aims to provide a synopsis of the current information concerning the biological role of CST in health and disease.', attributes={'Label': 'BACKGROUND', 'NlmCategory': 'BACKGROUND'}), StringElement('Structured search of bibliographic databases for peer-reviewed research literature.', attributes={'Label': 'METHODS', 'NlmCategory': 'METHODS'}), StringElement('CST is mainly known as an inhibitor of the nicotinic-dependent Catecholamine (CA) release, and an anti-hypertensive peptide, but its role includes a modulation of antioxidant and immune defense, epidermal function, and adipose tissue homeostasis. CST influences the cardiocirculatory system acting both indirectly, via the autonomic nervous system, and directly by influencing the basal cardiac function, and the stretch-dependent myocardial performance. It also counteracts the effects of adrenergic stimulation on the heart and protects the myocardium from ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, acting in pre- and postconditioning protection.', attributes={'Label': 'RESULTS', 'NlmCategory': 'RESULTS'}), StringElement('The knowledge on CST is constantly expanding, thanks to a growing number of human studies that document its involvement in physiological modulation and in many severe diseases, also revealing its applicative potential as a clinical biomarker.', attributes={'Label': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
28948824 Currently the full-text not available Radioimmunoassay of chromogranin A and free metanephrines in diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. Physiological research ['This work discusses the clinical performance of chromogranin A, free metanephrine and normetanephrine determination in plasma using a radioimmunoanalytical methods for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma. Blood samples were collected from 55 patients (46 pheochromocytomas, 9 paragangliomas). A sampling of biological materials was performed preoperatively and about one week, six months and one year after adrenal gland surgery. The comparative group without a diagnosis of pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma consisted of 36 pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma patients more than 4 months after adrenal gland surgery, and of 87 patients, 16 of them with multiple endocrine neoplasia, 9 with medullary and 5 with parafolicullar carcinoma of the thyroid gland. The rest were patients with various adrenal gland disorders. Chromogranin A, metanephrine and normetanephrine were determined in the EDTA-plasma using a radioimmunoassay kits Cisbio Bioassays, France and IBL International GmbH, Germany. Clinical sensitivity was 96 % for the combination of metanephrine and normetanephrine, and 93 % for chromogranin A. Clinical specificity was 100 % for the combination metanephrine and normetanephrine, and 96 % for chromogranin A. Falsely elevated levels of chromogranin A were observed in 1 patient with chronic renal insufficiency and 9 analyses were influenced by the administration of proton pump inhibitors. These results were excluded of CGA specificity. Both the combination of plasma free metanephrine, normetanephrine and chromogranin A as determined by radioimmunoassays, which are simple without the necessity of special laboratory material, are effective markers of pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma. Chromogranin A exerts association to malignity and all markers are associated with tumor mass.'] 
