27819673 Currently the full-text not available LMP1 signaling pathway activates IRF4 in latent EBV infection and a positive circuit between PI3K and Src is required.
Oncogene [StringElement('Interferon (IFN) regulatory factors (IRFs) have crucial roles in immune regulation and oncogenesis.
We have recently shown that IRF4 is activated through c-Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation in virus-transformed cells.
However, the intracellular signaling pathway triggering Src activation of IRF4 remains unknown.
In this study, we provide evidence that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) promotes IRF4 phosphorylation and markedly stimulates IRF4 transcriptional activity, and that Src mediates LMP1 activation of IRF4.
As to more precise mechanism, we show that LMP1 physically interacts with c-Src, and the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) subunit P85 mediates their interaction.
Depletion of P85 by P85-specific short hairpin RNAs disrupts their interaction and diminishes IRF4 phosphorylation in EBV-transformed cells.
Furthermore, we show that Src is upstream of PI3K for activation of both IRF4 and Akt.
In turn, inhibition of PI3K kinase activity by the PI3K-speicfic inhibitor LY294002 impairs Src activity.
Our results show that LMP1 signaling is responsible for IRF4 activation, and further characterize the IRF4 regulatory network that is a promising therapeutic target for specific hematological malignancies.
Oncogene advance online publication, 7 November 2016; doi:10.1038/onc.2016.380.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
27826752 Currently the full-text not available Essential role of interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) in immune cell development.
Archives of pharmacal research [StringElement('The family of interferon regulatory factors, which includes nine mammalian members (IRF1-IRF9), acts as transcription factors for interferons and thus exerts regulatory functions in the immune system and in oncogenesis.
Among these members, IRF4 expression is restricted to immune cells such as T and B lymphocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells where it is a key factor in the regulation of differentiation and is required during the immune response for lymphocyte activation and the generation of immunoglobulin-secreting plasma cells.
Consequently, dysregulation of IRF4 is associated with many lymphoid malignancies.
Recent studies have demonstrated that depending on the context and stage of hematopoietic cell differentiation in which its expression is dysregulated, IRF4 may act as either an oncogene or a tumor-suppressor-like factor.
In addition, it has been shown that IRF4 plays a pivotal role in the development and function of several autoimmune-associated cells.
Various genetic and functional studies have also pointed to IRF4 as a master regulator for autoimmunity.
In this review, the roles of IRF4 in the immune response are briefly summarized and discussed, with particular focus on its essential and distinct functions in immune cell development.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
27601624 Currently the full-text not available Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) controls myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC) differentiation and function.
Journal of leukocyte biology [StringElement('Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are immature cells that do not differentiate into mature myeloid cells.
Two major populations of PMN-MDSCs (Ly6G(high)Ly6C(low)Gr1(high)CD11b(+)) and MO-MDSCs (Ly6G(-)Ly6C(high)Gr-1(int)CD11b(+)) have an immune suppressive function.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) has a role in the negative regulation of TLR signaling and is associated with lymphoid cell development.
However, the roles of IRF4 in myeloid cell differentiation are unclear.
In this study, we found that IRF4 expression was remarkably suppressed during the development of MDSCs in the tumor microenvironment.
Both the mRNA and protein levels of IRF4 in MDSCs were gradually reduced, depending on the development of tumors in the 4T1 model.
siRNA-mediated knockdown of IRF4 in bone marrow cells promoted the differentiation of PMN-MDSCs.
Similarly, IRF4 inhibition in bone marrow cells using simvastatin, which has been known to inhibit IRF4 expression, increased PMN-MDSC numbers.
In contrast, IRF4 overexpression in bone marrow cells inhibited the total numbers of MDSCs, especially PMN-MDSCs.
Notably, treatment with IL-4, an upstream regulator of IRF4, induced IRF4 expression in the bone marrow cells, and consequently, IL-4-induced IRF4 expression resulted in a decrease in PMN-MDSC numbers.
Finally, we confirmed that IRF4 expression in MDSCs can modulate their activity to inhibit T cell proliferation through IL-10 production and ROS generation, and myeloid-specific deletion of IRF4 leads to the increase of MDSC differentiation.
Our present findings indicate that IRF4 reduction induced by tumor formation can increase the number of MDSCs, and increases in the IRF4 expression in MDSCs may infringe on the immune-suppressive function of MDSCs.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26781452 Currently the full-text not available TIPE2, a negative regulator of TLR signaling, regulates p27 through IRF4-induced signaling.
Oncology reports ['Targeted inhibition of specific toll-like receptor (TLR) pathways may provide an effective strategy to prevent the development of selected gastric malignancies.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-induced protein 8-like-2 (TIPE2) was identified as a novel negative regulator of TLR signaling.
Our previous study identified TIPE2 as an inhibitor of gastric cancer cell growth; it promotes p27 expression, which leads to restored control of the cell cycle and cell division.
However, the molecular mechanism by which TIPE2 regulates p27 remains unclear.
In the present study, we examined the expression patterns of TIPE2 in serial clinical gastritis tissues as well as gastric cancer, and found a negative correlation between TIPE2 expression and progression of gastritis to gastric cancer.
This negative correlation verified the role of TIPE2 in preventing the occurrence and development of gastric cancer, suggesting that TIPE2 may be a potential biomarker for gastric cancer progression.
To determine the mechanism employed by TIPE2 in gastric cell carcinogenesis, a TIPE2-expressing plasmid was introduced into gastric cell lines, and microarray and western blot analysis revealed that TIPE2 selectively upregulates the expression of interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4).
Variations in IRF4 expression were additionally verified in knockout mice.
Next, the effect of IRF4 on p27 expression was tested by an IRF4 siRNA interference assay.
Finally, we explored the signaling pathways used by TIPE2 to regulate IRF4.
An experiment using pathway inhibitors and a nuclear factor κ-light-chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) luciferase reporter assay showed that NF-κB plays a crucial role in regulating IRF4 expression.
Our data provide evidence that TIPE2, a potential biomarker for gastric cancer progression, stimulates an IRF4-associated signaling cascade that promotes p27 expression and controls cell growth.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate that IRF4 acts as an inhibitor of epithelial cell proliferation and mediates the expression of TIPE2, a negative regulator of TLR signaling, to control cell growth.'] 
26746189 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4744567
[AVAILABLE ON 02/15/17]/pdf/ IRF4 and IRF8 Act in CD11c+
Cells To Regulate Terminal Differentiation of Lung Tissue Dendritic Cells.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950) ['Dendritic cells (DCs) initiate immune responses in barrier tissues including lung and skin.
Conventional DC (cDC) subsets, CD11b(-) (cDC1s) or CD11b(+) (cDC2s), arise via distinct networks of transcription factors involving IFN regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and IRF8, and are specialized for unique functional responses.
Using mice in which a conditional Irf4 or Irf8 allele is deleted in CD11c(+) cells, we determined whether IRF4 or IRF8 deficiency beginning in CD11c(+)
cDC precursors (pre-cDCs) changed the homeostasis of mature DCs or pre-DCs in the lung, dermis, and spleen.
CD11c-cre-Irf4(-/-) mice selectively lacked a lung-resident CD11c(hi)CD11b(+)SIRPα(+)CD24(+)
DC subset, but not other lung CD11b(+)
DCs or alveolar macrophages.
Numbers of CD11b(+)CD4(+)
splenic DCs, but not CD11b(+) dermal DCs, were reduced, indicating cDC2s in the lung and dermis develop via different pathways.
Irf4 deficiency did not alter numbers of cDC1s.
CD11c-cre-Irf8(-/-) mice lacked lung-resident CD103(+)
DCs and splenic CD8α(+)
DCs, yet harbored increased IRF4-dependent DCs.
This correlated with a reduced number of Irf8(-/-) pre-cDCs, which contained elevated IRF4, suggesting that Irf8 deficiency diverts pre-cDC fate.
Analyses of Irf4 and Irf8 haploinsufficient mice showed that, although one Irf4 allele was sufficient for lung cDC2 development, two functional Irf8 alleles were required for differentiation of lung cDC1s.
Thus, IRF8 and IRF4 act in pre-cDCs to direct the terminal differentiation of cDC1 and cDC2 subsets in the lung and spleen.
These data suggest that variation in IRF4 or IRF8 levels resulting from genetic polymorphisms or environmental cues will govern tissue DC numbers and, therefore, regulate the magnitude of DC functional responses.'] 
26173778
Currently the full-text not available IRF4 Deficiency Leads to Altered BCR Signalling Revealed by Enhanced PI3K Pathway, Decreased SHIP Expression and Defected Cytoskeletal Responses.
Scandinavian journal of immunology ['The graded expression of transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) regulates B cell development and is critical for plasma cell differentiation.
However, the mechanisms, by which IRF4 elicits its crucial tasks, are largely unknown.
To characterize the molecular targets of IRF4 in B cells, we established an IRF4-deficient DT40 B cell line.
We found that in the absence of IRF4, the expression of several molecules involved in BCR signalling was altered.
For example, the expression of B cell adaptor for PI3K (BCAP) was upregulated, whereas the SHIP (SH2-containing Inositol 5?-Phosphatase) expression was downregulated.
These molecular unbalances were accompanied by increased BCR-induced calcium signalling, attenuated B cell linker protein (BLNK) and ERK activity and enhanced activity of PI3K/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway.
Further, the IRF4-deficient cells showed dramatically diminished cytoskeletal responses to anti-IgM cross-linking.
Our results show that IRF4 has an important role in the regulation of BCR signalling and help to shed light on the molecular mechanisms of B cell development and germinal centre response.'] 
25833963 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4432006/pdf/
The oncogenic transcription factor IRF4 is regulated by a novel CD30/NF-κB positive feedback loop in peripheral T-cell lymphoma.
Blood ['Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are generally aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphomas with poor overall survival rates following standard therapy.
One-third of PTCLs express interferon regulatory factor-4 (IRF4), a tightly regulated transcription factor involved in lymphocyte growth and differentiation.
IRF4 drives tumor growth in several lymphoid malignancies and has been proposed as a candidate therapeutic target.
Because direct IRF4 inhibitors are not clinically available, we sought to characterize the mechanism by which IRF4 expression is regulated in PTCLs.
We demonstrated that IRF4 is constitutively expressed in PTCL cells and drives Myc expression and proliferation.
Using an inhibitor screen, we identified nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) as a candidate regulator of IRF4 expression and cell proliferation.
We then demonstrated that the NF-κB subunits p52 and RelB were transcriptional activators of IRF4.
Further analysis showed that activation of CD30 promotes p52 and RelB activity and subsequent IRF4 expression.
Finally, we showed that IRF4 transcriptionally regulates CD30 expression.
Taken together, these data demonstrate a novel positive feedback loop involving CD30, NF-κB, and IRF4; further evidence for this mechanism was demonstrated in human PTCL tissue samples.
Accordingly, NF-κB inhibitors may represent a clinical means to disrupt this feedback loop in IRF4-positive PTCLs.'] 
25631878 Currently the full-text not available Allele-specific transcriptional regulation of IRF4 in melanocytes is mediated by chromatin looping of the intronic rs12203592 enhancer to the IRF4 promoter.
Human molecular genetics [
"The majority of significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identified with genome-wide association studies are located in non-coding regions of the genome; it is therefore possible that they are involved in transcriptional regulation of a nearby gene rather than affecting an encoded protein's function.
Previously, it was demonstrated that the SNP rs12203592, located in intron 4 of the IRF4 gene, is strongly associated with human skin pigmentation and modulates an enhancer element that controls expression of IRF4.
In our study, we investigated the allele-specific effect of rs12203592 on IRF4 expression in epidermal skin samples and in melanocytic cells from donors of different skin color.
We focused on the characteristics and activity of the enhancer, and on long-range chromatin interactions in melanocytic cells homozygous and heterozygous for rs12203592.
We found that, irrespective of the trans-activating environment, IRF4 transcription is strongly correlated with the allelic status of rs12203592, the activity of the rs12203592 enhancer and that the chromatin features depend on the rs12203592 genotype.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that the rs12203592 enhancer physically interacts with the IRF4 promoter through an allele-dependent chromatin loop, and suggest that subsequent allele-specific activation of IRF4 transcription is stabilized by another allele-specific loop from the rs12203592 enhancer to an additional regulatory element in IRF4.
We conclude that the non-coding SNP rs12203592 is located in a regulatory region and affects a wide range of enhancer characteristics, resulting into modulation of the enhancer's activity, its interaction with the IRF4 promoter and subsequent allele-specific transcription of IRF4.
Our findings provide another example of a non-coding SNP affecting skin color by modulating enhancer-mediated transcriptional regulation."
] 
26196464 Currently the full-text not available MMSET regulates expression of IRF4 in t(4;14)
myeloma and its silencing potentiates the effect of bortezomib.
Leukemia ['Multiple myeloma (MM) is characterized by recurrent chromosomal translocations.
In t(4;14) MM, the MM SET domain (MMSET) protein is universally overexpressed and has been suggested to have an important tumorigenic role.
However, the exact molecular targets underlying MMSET activity are not well understood.
Here, we found in t(4;14)
MM cells
that MMSET knockdown decreases interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) expression, and ectopic MMSET increases IRF4 expression, suggesting that MMSET is an upstream regulator of IRF4.
Further analyses indicated an interaction between MMSET and nuclear factor-κB, which both bind to the IRF4 promoter region.
A luciferase reporter assay showed that MMSET is an important functional element for the IRF4 promoter.
MMSET knockdown induces apoptosis and potentiates the effects of bortezomib in vitro and in vivo.
Importantly, we found that bortezomib could reduce expression of MMSET and IRF4.
This might partly explain the additive effect of combining MMSET knockdown and bortezomib treatment.
These results identify MMSET as a key regulator involved in the regulatory network of transcription factor IRF4, which is critical for MM cell survival, suggesting that the combination of MMSET inhibition and bortezomib is likely to improve patient outcome in MM.'] 
26731516 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4775225/pdf/
Bromodomain inhibition of the transcriptional coactivators CBP/EP300 as a therapeutic strategy to target the IRF4 network in multiple myeloma.
eLife ['Pharmacological inhibition of chromatin co-regulatory factors represents a clinically validated strategy to modulate oncogenic signaling through selective attenuation of gene expression.
Here, we demonstrate that CBP/EP300 bromodomain inhibition preferentially abrogates the viability of multiple myeloma cell lines.
Selective targeting of multiple myeloma cell lines through CBP/EP300 bromodomain inhibition is the result of direct transcriptional suppression of the lymphocyte-specific transcription factor IRF4, which is essential for the viability of myeloma cells, and the concomitant repression of the IRF4 target gene c-MYC. Ectopic expression of either IRF4 or MYC antagonizes the phenotypic and transcriptional effects of CBP/EP300 bromodomain inhibition, highlighting the IRF4/MYC axis as a key component of its mechanism of action.
These findings suggest that CBP/EP300 bromodomain inhibition represents a viable therapeutic strategy for targeting multiple myeloma and other lymphoid malignancies dependent on the IRF4 network.'] 
