27334590 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4988162 [AVAILABLE ON 02/12/17]/pdf/ cGAS-STING Signaling Regulates Initial Innate Control of Cytomegalovirus Infection. Journal of virology [StringElement('Several innate sensing pathways contribute to the control of early cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, leading to a multiphasic type I interferon (IFN-I) response that limits viral replication and promotes host defenses. Toll-like receptor (TLR)-dependent pathways induce IFN-I production in CMV-infected plasmacytoid dendritic cells; however, the initial burst of IFN-I that occurs within the first few hours in vivo is TLR independent and emanates from stromal cells. Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses to human CMV that are dependent upon cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), STING, and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) signaling. Disruption of STING expression in endothelial cells by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-Cas9 revealed that it is essential for the induction of IFN-I and restriction of CMV replication. Consistently, STING was necessary to mount the first phase of IFN-I production and curb CMV replication in infected mice. Thus, DNA sensing through STING is critical for primary detection of both human and mouse CMV in nonhematopoietic cells and drives the initial wave of IFN-I that is key for controlling early viral replication in vivo', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the most common viral pathogens, with the majority of people contracting the virus in their lifetime. Although acute infection is mostly asymptomatic in healthy persons, significant pathology is observed in immunocompromised individuals, and chronic CMV infection may exacerbate a myriad of inflammatory conditions. Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses against CMV via a cGAS/STING/IRF3 pathway. Disruption of STING expression by CRISPRs revealed an essential role in eliciting IFN-I responses and restricting CMV replication. Consistently, in mice, STING is necessary for the first phase of IFN-I production that limits early CMV replication. Our results demonstrate a pivotal role for the cGAS-STING pathway in the initial detection of CMV infection.', attributes={'Label': 'IMPORTANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'})] 