25425575 Currently the full-text not available Cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids activate the cGAS-STING axis. The EMBO journal ["Intracellular recognition of non-self and also self-nucleic acids can result in the initiation of potent pro-inflammatory and antiviral cytokine responses. Most recently, cGAS was shown to be critical for the recognition of cytoplasmic dsDNA. Binding of dsDNA to cGAS results in the synthesis of cGAMP(2'-5'), which then binds to the endoplasmic reticulum resident protein STING. This initiates a signaling cascade that triggers the induction of an antiviral immune response. While most studies on intracellular nucleic acids have focused on dsRNA or dsDNA, it has remained unexplored whether cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids are also sensed by the innate immune system. Studying synthetic RNA:DNA hybrids, we indeed observed a strong type I interferon response upon cytosolic delivery of this class of molecule. Studies in THP-1 knockout cells revealed that the recognition of RNA:DNA hybrids is completely attributable to the cGAS-STING pathway. Moreover, in vitro studies showed that recombinant cGAS produced cGAMP upon RNA:DNA hybrid recognition. Altogether, our results introduce RNA:DNA hybrids as a novel class of intracellular PAMP molecules and describe an alternative cGAS ligand next to dsDNA."] 
27076643 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4907218 [AVAILABLE ON 12/10/16]/pdf/ Diminished Innate Antiviral Response to Adenovirus Vectors in cGAS/STING-Deficient Mice Minimally Impacts Adaptive Immunity. Journal of virology [StringElement('Infection by adenovirus, a nonenveloped DNA virus, induces antiviral innate and adaptive immune responses. Studies of transformed human and murine cell lines using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown strategies identified cyclic guanine adenine synthase (cGAS) as a pattern recognition receptor (PRR) that contributes to the antiadenovirus response. Here we demonstrate how the cGAS/STING cascade influences the antiviral innate and adaptive immune responses in a murine knockout model. Using knockout bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMOs), we determined that cGAS and STING are essential to the induction of the antiadenovirus response in these antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in vitro We next determined how the cGAS/STING cascade impacts the antiviral response following systemic administration of a recombinant adenovirus type 5 vector (rAd5V). Infection of cGAS(-/-) and STING(-/-) mice results in a compromised early antiviral innate response compared to that in wild-type (WT) controls: significantly lower levels of beta interferon (IFN-β) secretion, low levels of proinflammatory chemokine induction, and reduced levels of antiviral transcript induction in hepatic tissue. At 24 h postinfection, levels of viral DNA and reporter gene expression in the liver were similar in all strains. At 28 days postinfection, clearance of infected hepatocytes in cGAS or STING knockout mice was comparable to that in WT C57BL/6 mice. Levels of neutralizing anti-Ad5V antibody were modestly reduced in infected cGAS mice. These data support a dominant role for the cGAS/STING cascade in the early innate antiviral inflammatory response to adenovirus vectors. However, loss of the cGAS/STING pathway did not affect viral clearance, and cGAS deficiency had a modest influence on the magnitude of the antiviral humoral immune response to adenovirus infections.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('The detection of viral infection by host sentinel immune cells contributes to the activation of a complex and varied antiviral innate and adaptive immune response, which limits virus replication, spread, and susceptibility to infection. In this study, we have characterized how the cGAS/STING DNA-sensing cascade contributes to early detection of adenovirus infections. cGAS influences APC activation and early innate antiviral inflammatory immune responses, but adaptive immune pathways associated with virus clearance and anti-Ad antibody production were minimally influenced by the loss of the cGAS PRR signaling cascade.', attributes={'Label': 'IMPORTANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'})] 
26199418 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4534226/pdf/ Modulation of the cGAS-STING DNA sensing pathway by gammaherpesviruses. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ["Infection of cells with DNA viruses triggers innate immune responses mediated by DNA sensors. cGMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a key DNA sensor that produces the cyclic dinucleotide cGMP-AMP (cGAMP) upon activation, which binds to and activates stimulator of interferon genes (STING), leading to IFN production and an antiviral response. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a DNA virus that is linked to several human malignancies. We report that KSHV infection activates the cGAS-STING pathway, and that cGAS and STING also play an important role in regulating KSHV reactivation from latency. We screened KSHV proteins for their ability to inhibit this pathway and identified six viral proteins that block IFN-β activation through this pathway. This study is the first report identifying multiple viral proteins encoded by a human DNA virus that inhibit the cGAS-STING DNA sensing pathway. One such protein, viral interferon regulatory factor 1 (vIRF1), targets STING by preventing it from interacting with TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1), thereby inhibiting STING's phosphorylation and concomitant activation, resulting in an inhibition of the DNA sensing pathway. Our data provide a unique mechanism for the negative regulation of STING-mediated DNA sensing. Moreover, the depletion of vIRF1 in the context of KSHV infection prevented efficient viral reactivation and replication, and increased the host IFN response to KSHV. The vIRF1-expressing cells also inhibited IFN-β production following infection with DNA pathogens. Collectively, our results demonstrate that gammaherpesviruses encode inhibitors that block cGAS-STING-mediated antiviral immunity, and that modulation of this pathway is important for viral transmission and the lifelong persistence of herpesviruses in the human population."] 
25297994 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4249147/pdf/ Unabated adenovirus replication following activation of the cGAS/STING-dependent antiviral response in human cells. Journal of virology [StringElement('The cGAS/STING DNA sensing complex has recently been established as a predominant pathogen recognition receptor (PRR) for DNA-directed type I interferon (IFN) innate immune activation. Using replication-defective adenovirus vectors and replication-competent wild-type adenovirus, we have modeled the influence of the cGAS/STING cascade in permissive human cell lines (A549, HeLa, ARPE19, and THP1). Wild-type adenovirus induced efficient early activation of the cGAS/STING cascade in a cell-specific manner. In all responsive cell lines, cGAS/STING short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown resulted in a loss of TBK1 and interferon response factor 3 (IRF3) activation, a lack of beta interferon transcript induction, loss of interferon-dependent STAT1 activation, and diminished induction of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Adenoviruses that infect through the coxsackievirus-adenovirus receptor (CAR) (Ad2 and Ad5) and the CD46 (Ad35) and desmoglein-2 (Ad7) viral receptors all induce the cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade. The magnitude of the IRF3/IFN/ISG antiviral response was strongly influenced by serotype, with Ad35>Ad7>Ad2. For each serotype, no enhancement of viral DNA replication or virus production occurred in cGAS or STING shRNA-targeted cell line pools. We found no replication advantage in permissive cell lines that do not trigger the cGAS/STING cascade following infection. The cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade was not a direct target of viral antihost strategies, and we found no evidence that Ad stimulation of the cGAS/STING DNA response had an impact on viral replication efficiency.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('This study shows for the first time that the cGAS DNA sensor directs a dominant IRF3/IFN/ISG antiviral response to adenovirus in human cell lines. Activation of cGAS occurs with viruses that infect through different high-affinity receptors (CAR, CD46, and desmoglein-2), and the magnitude of the cGAS/STING DNA response cascade is influenced by serotype-specific functions. Furthermore, activation of the cGAS cascade occurred in a cell-specific manner. Activation of the cGAS/STING response did not impact viral replication, and viral immune evasion strategies did not target the cGAS/STING/TBK1/IRF3 cascade. These studies provide novel insight into the early innate recognition response to adenovirus.', attributes={'Label': 'IMPORTANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'})] 
27637147 Currently the full-text not available Sumoylation Promotes the Stability of the DNA Sensor cGAS and the Adaptor STING to Regulate the Kinetics of Response to DNA Virus. Immunity ['During viral infection, sensing of cytosolic DNA by the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) activates the adaptor protein STING and triggers an antiviral response. Little is known about the mechanisms that determine the kinetics of activation and deactivation of the cGAS-STING pathway, ensuring effective but controlled innate antiviral responses. Here we found that the ubiquitin ligase Trim38 targets cGas for sumoylation in uninfected cells and during the early phase of viral infection. Sumoylation of cGas prevented its polyubiquitination and degradation. Trim38 also sumoylated Sting during the early phase of viral infection, promoting both Sting activation and protein stability. In the late phase of infection, cGas and Sting were desumoylated by Senp2 and subsequently degraded via proteasomal and chaperone-mediated autophagy pathways, respectively. Our findings reveal an essential role for Trim38 in the innate immune response to DNA virus and provide insight into the mechanisms that ensure optimal activation and deactivation of the cGAS-STING pathway.'] 
27889408 Currently the full-text not available An RNA-Based Fluorescent Biosensor for High-Throughput Analysis of the cGAS-cGAMP-STING Pathway. Cell chemical biology [StringElement('In mammalian cells, the second messenger (2\'-5\',3\'-5\') cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (2\',3\'-cGAMP), is produced by the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAMP synthase (cGAS), and subsequently bound by the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) to trigger interferon response. Thus, the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway plays a critical role in pathogen detection, as well as pathophysiological conditions including cancer and autoimmune disorders. However, studying and targeting this immune signaling pathway has been challenging due to the\xa0absence of tools for high-throughput analysis. We have engineered an RNA-based fluorescent biosensor that responds to 2\',3\'-cGAMP. The resulting "mix-and-go" cGAS activity assay shows excellent statistical reliability as a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay and distinguishes between direct and indirect cGAS inhibitors. Furthermore, the biosensor enables quantitation of 2\',3\'-cGAMP in mammalian cell lysates. We envision this biosensor-based assay as a resource to study the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway in the context of infectious diseases, cancer immunotherapy, and autoimmune diseases.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
24981511 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4117786/pdf/ Molecular evolutionary and structural analysis of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS and STING. Nucleic acids research ["Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is recently identified as a cytosolic DNA sensor and generates a non-canonical cGAMP that contains G(2',5')pA and A(3',5')pG phosphodiester linkages. cGAMP activates STING which triggers innate immune responses in mammals. However, the evolutionary functions and origins of cGAS and STING remain largely elusive. Here, we carried out comprehensive evolutionary analyses of the cGAS-STING pathway. Phylogenetic analysis of cGAS and STING families showed that their origins could be traced back to a choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis. Modern cGAS and STING may have acquired structural features, including zinc-ribbon domain and critical amino acid residues for DNA binding in cGAS as well as carboxy terminal tail domain for transducing signals in STING, only recently in vertebrates. In invertebrates, cGAS homologs may not act as DNA sensors. Both proteins cooperate extensively, have similar evolutionary characteristics, and thus may have co-evolved during metazoan evolution. cGAS homologs and a prokaryotic dinucleotide cyclase for canonical cGAMP share conserved secondary structures and catalytic residues. Therefore, non-mammalian cGAS may function as a nucleotidyltransferase and could produce cGAMP and other cyclic dinucleotides. Taken together, assembling signaling components of the cGAS-STING pathway onto the eukaryotic evolutionary map illuminates the functions and origins of this innate immune pathway."] 
27705945 Currently the full-text not available Interaction between susceptibility loci in cGAS-STING pathway, MHC gene and HPV infection on the risk of cervical precancerous lesions in Chinese population. Oncotarget [StringElement('Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a definite risk factor for cervical cancer. Nevertheless, only some infected individuals actually develop cervical cancer. The cGAS-STING pathway in innate immunity plays an important role in protecting against HPV infection. Chen et al. described that the rs2516448 SNP in the MHC locus may affect susceptibility to cervical cancer, a finding that we attempted to replicate in a Chinese population. To investigate the effects of cGAS, STING and MHC polymorphisms on susceptibility to cervical precancerous lesions, 9 SNPs were analyzed in 164 cervical precancerous lesion cases and 428 controls. Gene-gene and gene-environment interactions were also evaluated. We found a significantly decreased risk of cervical precancerous lesions for the GG genotype of rs311678 in the cGAS gene (ORadjusted = 0.40, 95% CI: 0.16-0.98). Moreover, MDR analysis identified a significant three-locus interaction model, involving HPV infection, age at menarche and rs311678 in cGAS. Additionally, a significant antagonistic interaction between HPV infection and rs311678 was found on an additive scale. In conclusion, our results indicate that the rs311678 polymorphism in the cGAS gene confers genetic susceptibility to cervical precancerous lesions. Moreover, the three-way gene-environment interactions further demonstrate that the rs311678 polymorphism in cGAS can significantly decrease the risk of HPV infection and the elder at menarche.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
26867174 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4755325 [AVAILABLE ON 02/10/17]/pdf/ The cGAS-STING Defense Pathway and Its Counteraction by Viruses. Cell host & microbe ['Upon virus infection, host cells mount a concerted innate immune response involving type I interferon and pro-inflammatory cytokines to enable elimination of the pathogen. Recently, cGAS and STING have been identified as intracellular sensors that activate the interferon pathway in response to virus infection and thus mediate host defense against a range of DNA and RNA viruses. Here we review how viruses are sensed by the cGAS-STING signaling pathway as well as how viruses modulate this pathway. Mechanisms utilized by viral proteins to inhibit cGAS and/or STING are also discussed. On the flip side, host cells have also evolved strategies to thwart viral immune escape. The balance between host immune control and viral immune evasion is pivotal to viral pathogenesis, and we discuss this virus-host stand-off in the context of the cGAS-STING innate immune pathway.'] 
27334590 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4988162 [AVAILABLE ON 02/12/17]/pdf/ cGAS-STING Signaling Regulates Initial Innate Control of Cytomegalovirus Infection. Journal of virology [StringElement('Several innate sensing pathways contribute to the control of early cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, leading to a multiphasic type I interferon (IFN-I) response that limits viral replication and promotes host defenses. Toll-like receptor (TLR)-dependent pathways induce IFN-I production in CMV-infected plasmacytoid dendritic cells; however, the initial burst of IFN-I that occurs within the first few hours in vivo is TLR independent and emanates from stromal cells. Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses to human CMV that are dependent upon cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), STING, and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) signaling. Disruption of STING expression in endothelial cells by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-Cas9 revealed that it is essential for the induction of IFN-I and restriction of CMV replication. Consistently, STING was necessary to mount the first phase of IFN-I production and curb CMV replication in infected mice. Thus, DNA sensing through STING is critical for primary detection of both human and mouse CMV in nonhematopoietic cells and drives the initial wave of IFN-I that is key for controlling early viral replication in vivo', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the most common viral pathogens, with the majority of people contracting the virus in their lifetime. Although acute infection is mostly asymptomatic in healthy persons, significant pathology is observed in immunocompromised individuals, and chronic CMV infection may exacerbate a myriad of inflammatory conditions. Here we show that primary human endothelial cells mount robust IFN-I responses against CMV via a cGAS/STING/IRF3 pathway. Disruption of STING expression by CRISPRs revealed an essential role in eliciting IFN-I responses and restricting CMV replication. Consistently, in mice, STING is necessary for the first phase of IFN-I production that limits early CMV replication. Our results demonstrate a pivotal role for the cGAS-STING pathway in the initial detection of CMV infection.', attributes={'Label': 'IMPORTANCE', 'NlmCategory': 'OBJECTIVE'})] 
