24641164 Cationic surface charge combined with either vitronectin or laminin dictates the evolution of human embryonic stem cells/microcarrier aggregates and cell growth in agitated cultures. ["The expansion of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC) for biomedical applications generally compels a defined, reliable, and scalable platform. Bioreactors offer a three-dimensional culture environment that relies on the implementation of microcarriers (MC), as supports for cell anchorage and their subsequent growth. Polystyrene microspheres/MC coated with adhesion-promoting extracellular matrix (ECM) protein, vitronectin (VN), or laminin (LN) have been shown to support hPSC expansion in a static environment. However, they are insufficient to promote human embryonic stem cells (hESC) seeding and their expansion in an agitated environment. The present study describes an innovative technology, consisting of a cationic charge that underlies the ECM coatings. By combining poly-L-lysine (PLL) with a coating of ECM protein, cell attachment efficiency and cell spreading are improved, thus enabling seeding under agitation in a serum-free medium. This coating combination also critically enables the subsequent formation and evolution of hPSC/MC aggregates, which ensure cell viability and generate high yields. Aggregate dimensions of at least 300\u2009μm during early cell growth give rise to ≈15-fold expansion at 7 days' culture. Increasing aggregate numbers at a quasi-constant size of ≈300\u2009μm indicates hESC growth within a self-regulating microenvironment. PLL+LN enables cell seeding and aggregate evolution under constant agitation, whereas PLL+VN requires an intermediate 2-day static pause to attain comparable aggregate sizes and correspondingly high expansion yields. The cells' highly reproducible bioresponse to these defined and characterized MC surface properties is universal across multiple cell lines, thus confirming the robustness of this scalable expansion process in a defined environment."] 