25999518 Study of Bone Marrow and Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells for Treatment of Escherichia coli Endotoxin-Induced Acute Lung Injury in Mice. [StringElement(': Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can be derived from multiple tissue sources. However, the optimal source of MSCs for cell-based therapy for acute lung injury (ALI) is unclear. In the present experiments, we studied bone marrow (BM)-derived and embryonic stem cell-derived human MSC (ES-MSCs) as a therapeutic agent in Escherichia coli endotoxin-induced ALI in mice. We hypothesized that ES-MSCs would be more potent than BM-MSCs owing to its more primitive source of origin. ALI was induced by the intratracheal instillation of endotoxin at 4 mg/kg into 10-12-week-old C57BL/6 mice with or without BM-MSCs, ES-MSCs, or normal human lung fibroblasts as a cellular control. Compared with the endotoxin-injured mice at 48 hours, the administration of ES-MSCs provided results similar to those of BM-MSCs, significantly reducing the influx of white blood cells and neutrophils and decreasing the secretion of the inflammatory cytokines, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 and tumor necrosis factor-α, in the injured alveolus. BM-MSCs also reduced extravascular lung water, a measure of pulmonary edema, by 60% and the total protein levels, a measure of lung permeability, by 66%. However, surprisingly, ES-MSCs did not have these protective effects, which was partially explained by the increased secretion of matrix metallopeptidase 9 by ES-MSCs, an enzyme known to increase lung protein permeability. In conclusion, both BM-MSCs and ES-MSCs markedly decreased endotoxin-induced inflammation. However, ES-MSCs did not show any beneficial effect on reducing pulmonary edema and lung protein permeability compared with BM-MSCs, suggesting that not all MSCs behave in a similar fashion. Our results highlight the need perhaps for a disease-specific potency assay for MSCs.', attributes={'Label': 'UNLABELLED'}), StringElement('To determine the optimal source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for cell-based therapy for acute lung injury, bone marrow (BM)- and embryonic stem cell-derived human MSC (ES-MSCs) were compared as therapeutic agents for Escherichia coli endotoxin-induced lung injury in mice. ES-MSCs behaved similarly to BM-MSCs by markedly decreasing the inflammatory response induced by endotoxin. However, unlike BM-MSCs, ES-MSCs provided no protective effects against increasing lung water and protein permeability, in part because of an increase in expression of matrix metallopeptidase 9 by ES-MSCs. In patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome, impaired alveolar fluid clearance (i.e., no resolution of pulmonary edema fluid) has been associated with higher mortality rates. Although ES-MSCs might ultimately be found to have properties superior to those of BM-MSCs, such as for immunomodulation, these results highlight the need for a disease-specific potency assay for stem cell-based therapy.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'CONCLUSIONS', 'Label': 'SIGNIFICANCE'})] 