25618857 [The role of chromogranin-A and its derived peptide, WE-14 in the development of type 1 diabetes mellitus]. ['Chromogranin-A is a member of the granine protein family. It is produced in neuroendocrine cells via secretory granules. Many cleavage proteins are formed from chromogranin-A, from which some have well known biological activity, while the function of others is not yet fully known. Serum chromogranin-A levels are used in neuroendocrine tumour diagnostics. Recent studies showed that one of its cleavage protein, WE-14 may also play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes. WE-14 may function as an autoantigen for T-cells involved in the destruction of β-cells. This mechanism was previously observed only in non-obese diabetic mice. Novel results show that WE-14 also serves as a target for autoreactive cells in newly diagnosed type 1 diabetic patients as well, which reaction can be increased with transglutaminase. In this paper the authors summarize the recent knowledge about chromogranin-A and its potential role in the pathomechanism of type 1 diabetes mellitus.'] 
25297920 Chromogranin A: a paradoxical player in angiogenesis and vascular biology. ['Half a century after the discovery of chromogranin A as a secreted product of the catecholamine storage granules in the bovine adrenal medulla, the physiological role for the circulating pool of this protein has been recently coined, namely as an important player in vascular homeostasis. While the circulating chromogranin A since 1984 has proved to be a significant and useful marker of a wide range of pathophysiological and pathological conditions involving the diffuse neuroendocrine system, this protein has now been assigned a physiological "raison d\'etre" as a regulator in vascular homeostasis. Moreover, chromogranin A processing in response to tissue damage and blood coagulation provides the first indication of a difference in time frame of the regulation of angiogenesis evoked by the intact chromogranin A and its two major peptide products, vasostatin-1 and catestatin. The impact of these discoveries on vascular homeostasis, angiogenesis, cancer, tissue repair and cardio-regulation will be discussed.'] 
27666593 TRIM14 Inhibits cGAS Degradation Mediated by Selective Autophagy Receptor p62 to Promote Innate Immune Responses. [StringElement('Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is an essential DNA virus sensor that triggers type I interferon (IFN) signaling by producing cGAMP to initiate antiviral immunity. However, post-translational regulation of cGAS remains largely unknown. We report that K48-linked ubiquitination of cGAS is a recognition signal for p62-depdendent selective autophagic degradation. The induction of TRIM14 by type I IFN accelerates cGAS stabilization by recruiting USP14 to cleave the ubiquitin chains of cGAS at lysine (K) 414. Knockout of TRIM14 impairs herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-triggered antiviral responses in a cGAS-dependent manner. Due to impaired type I IFN production, Trim14(-/-) mice are highly susceptible to lethal HSV-1 infection. Taken together, our findings reveal a positive feedback loop of cGAS signaling generated by TRIM14-USP14 and provide insights into the crosstalk between autophagy and type I IFN signaling in innate immunity.', attributes={'NlmCategory': 'UNASSIGNED'})] 
24957408 Different stressors elicit different responses in the salivary biomarkers cortisol, haptoglobin, and chromogranin A in pigs. ['Most commonly, salivary cortisol is used in pig stress assessment, alternative salivary biomarkers are scarcely studied. Here, salivary cortisol and two alternative salivary biomarkers, haptoglobin and chromogranin A were measured in a pig stress study. Treatment pigs (n\u2009=\u200924) were exposed to mixing and feed deprivation, in two trials, and compared to untreated controls (n\u2009=\u200924). Haptoglobin differed for feed deprivation vs control. Other differences were only found within treatment. Treatment pigs had higher salivary cortisol concentrations on the mixing day (P\u2009<\u20090.05). Chromogranin A concentrations were increased on the day of refeeding (P\u2009<\u20090.05). Haptoglobin showed a similar pattern to chromogranin A. Overall correlations between the salivary biomarkers were positive. Cortisol and chromogranin A were moderately correlated (r\u2009=\u20090.49, P\u2009<\u20090.0001), correlations between other markers were weaker. The present results indicate that different types of stressors elicited different physiological stress responses in the pigs, and therefore including various salivary biomarkers in stress evaluation seems useful.'] 
24821335 Cardiac electrical activity in a genomically "humanized" chromogranin a monogenic mouse model with hyperadrenergic hypertension. ['The prohormone chromogranin A (CHGA) is ubiquitously found in vesicles of adrenal chromaffin cells and adrenergic neurons, and it is processed to the hypotensive hormone peptide catestatin (CST). Both CHGA and CST regulate blood pressure and cardiac function. This study addresses their role in cardiac electrical activity. We have generated two genomically "humanized" transgenic mouse strains (Tg31CHGA+/+; Chga-/- (HumCHGA31) and Tg19CHGA+/+; Chga-/- (HumCHGA19)) with varied CHGA expression and the ability to rescue the Chga-/- phenotype (hypertensive, hyperadrenergic with dilated cardiomyopathy). The normotensive HumCHGA31 mice express CHGA at levels comparable to wild-type. In contrast, the hypertensive HumCHGA19 mice have low levels of CHGA. EKG recordings revealed that the QT interval, R-amplitude, and QRS time-voltage integral are markedly longer in HumCHGA19 compared to wild-type and HumCHGA31 mice. These differences are accompanied by increased heart rate and QT variability, indicating that ventricular assault happens in a status of low levels of circulating CST.'] 
