TBK-1 promotes autophagy-mediated antimicrobial defense by controlling autophagosome maturation. 22921120 Immunity [u'Autophagy is a fundamental biological process of the eukaryotic cell contributing to diverse cellular and physiological functions including cell-autonomous defense against intracellular pathogens. Here, we screened the Rab family of membrane trafficking regulators for effects on autophagic elimination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis var. bovis BCG and found that Rab8b and its downstream interacting partner, innate immunity regulator TBK-1, are required for autophagic elimination of mycobacteria in macrophages. TBK-1 was necessary for autophagic maturation. TBK-1 coordinated assembly and function of the autophagic machinery and phosphorylated the autophagic adaptor p62 (sequestosome 1) on Ser-403, a residue essential for its role in autophagic clearance. A key proinflammatory cytokine, IL-1\u03b2, induced autophagy leading to autophagic killing of mycobacteria in macrophages, and this IL-1\u03b2 activity was dependent on TBK-1. Thus, TBK-1 is\xa0a key regulator of immunological autophagy and is responsible for the maturation of autophagosomes into lytic bactericidal organelles.'] 
Influence of TBK-1 on tumor angiogenesis and microvascular inflammation. 18508731 Frontiers in bioscience : a journal and virtual library ['Tank-Binding-Kinase 1 (TBK-1) has been proposed as a putative mediator in tumor angiogenesis. It was the aim of our study to gain insight into TBK-1s role in tumor angiogenesis and tumor-associated microvascular inflammation. TBK-1 overexpressing KB 3-1 cells were generated and their growth characteristics were analyzed. Expression of TBK-1, VEGF, RANTES and Il-8 were quantified using qPCR and western blot analysis. Intravital microscopy using the dorsal skinfold chamber model in nude mice addressed total (TIVD) and functional intratumoral vascular density (FIVD), perfusion index, vessel diameter and leukocyte sticking. Transfection of KB-3 cells resulted in significantly increased TBK-1, RANTES and IL-8 expression without affecting cellular growth. Supernatants from TBK-1 overexpressing clones induced HUVEC proliferation. Intravital microscopy identified an increase in leukocyte sticking paralleled by significantly increased TIVD and FIVD as a result of increased VEGF expression. Therefore, TBK-1 represents a novel mediator of tumor angiogenesis and exerts proinflammatory effects via upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. The TBK-1 pathway might be an important cross-link between angiogenesis and inflammation representing a possible target for anti-tumor therapy.'] 
TBK-binding protein 1 regulates IL-15-induced autophagy and NKT cell survival. 30022064 Nature communications [u'The cytokine IL-15 mediates development and survival of immune cells, including natural killer T (NKT) cells, but the underlying mechanism of IL-15 function is incompletely understood. Here we show that IL-15 induces autophagy in NKT cells with a mechanism that involves a crucial signaling component, TBK-binding protein 1 (Tbkbp1). Tbkbp1 facilitates activation of the autophagy-initiating kinase Ulk1 through antagonizing the inhibitory action of mTORC1. This antagonization involves the recruitment of an mTORC1-opposing phosphatase to Ulk1. Tbkbp1 deficiency attenuates IL-15-stimulated NKT cell autophagy, and is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, aberrant ROS production, defective Bcl2 expression and reduced NKT cell survival. Consequently, Tbkbp1-deficient mice have profound deficiency in NKT cells, especially IFN-\u03b3-producing NKT1. We further show that Tbkbp1 regulates IL-15-stimulated autophagy and survival of NK cells. These findings suggest a mechanism of autophagy induction by IL-15, and establish Tbkbp1 as a regulator of NKT cell development and survival.'] 
Ebola virus protein VP35 impairs the function of interferon regulatory factor-activating kinases IKKepsilon and TBK-1. 19153231 Journal of virology ['The Ebola virus (EBOV) VP35 protein antagonizes the early antiviral alpha/beta interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) response. We previously demonstrated that VP35 inhibits the virus-induced activation of the IFN-beta promoter by blocking the phosphorylation of IFN-regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), a transcription factor that is crucial for the induction of IFN-alpha/beta expression. Furthermore, VP35 blocks IFN-beta promoter activation induced by any of several components of the retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)/melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA-5)-activated signaling pathways including RIG-I, IFN-beta promoter stimulator 1 (IPS-1), TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK-1), and IkappaB kinase epsilon (IKKepsilon). These results suggested that VP35 may target the IRF kinases TBK-1 and IKKepsilon. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments now demonstrate physical interactions of VP35 with IKKepsilon and TBK-1, and the use of an IKKepsilon deletion construct further demonstrates that the amino-terminal kinase domain of IKKepsilon is sufficient for interactions with either IRF-3 or VP35. In vitro, either IKKepsilon or TBK-1 phosphorylates not only IRF-3 but also VP35. Moreover, VP35 overexpression impairs IKKepsilon-IRF-3, IKKepsilon-IRF-7, and IKKepsilon-IPS-1 interactions. Finally, lysates from cells overexpressing IKKepsilon contain kinase activity that can phosphorylate IRF-3 in vitro. When VP35 is expressed in the IKKepsilon-expressing cells, this kinase activity is suppressed. These data suggest that VP35 exerts its IFN-antagonist function, at least in part, by blocking necessary interactions between the kinases IKKepsilon and TBK-1 and their normal interaction partners, including their substrates, IRF-3 and IRF-7.'] 
Adjuvant PIKA protects hepatoma cells from dengue virus infection by promoting a TBK-1-dependent innate immune response. 23224759 Archives of virology [u'Our study presents a first investigation of the effect of the adjuvant PIKA on dengue virus (DENV) replication. PIKA pretreatment decreased the levels of DENV serotype 2 (DENV2) mRNA, protein and viral particles in the hepatoma cell line HepG2. Treatment with PIKA simultaneously with DENV2 infection, but not after infection, resulted in a protective effect. Significant induction of type I and type III interferons (IFNs), as well as interferon-stimulated genes was detected in PIKA-pretreated cells. Neutralization of IFN-\u03b2 partially restored the replication levels of DENV2 in PIKA-pretreated cells, suggesting that IFN-\u03b2 is one of the mediators involved in the antiviral action of PIKA. Additionally, blockade of TBK-1 signaling largely restored the IFN induction and viral suppression effects mediated by PIKA, further illustrating that PIKA plays its anti-DENV role by promoting innate immunity. These findings suggest that PIKA is an attractive agent to be used in the prevention of DENV diseases.'] 
