Cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids activate the cGAS-STING axis. 25425575 The EMBO journal ["Intracellular recognition of non-self and also self-nucleic acids can result in the initiation of potent pro-inflammatory and antiviral cytokine responses. Most recently, cGAS was shown to be critical for the recognition of cytoplasmic dsDNA. Binding of dsDNA to cGAS results in the synthesis of cGAMP(2'-5'), which then binds to the endoplasmic reticulum resident protein STING. This initiates a signaling cascade that triggers the induction of an antiviral immune response. While most studies on intracellular nucleic acids have focused on dsRNA or dsDNA, it has remained unexplored whether cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrids are also sensed by the innate immune system. Studying synthetic RNA:DNA hybrids, we indeed observed a strong type I interferon response upon cytosolic delivery of this class of molecule. Studies in THP-1 knockout cells revealed that the recognition of RNA:DNA hybrids is completely attributable to the cGAS-STING pathway. Moreover, in vitro studies showed that recombinant cGAS produced cGAMP upon RNA:DNA hybrid recognition. Altogether, our results introduce RNA:DNA hybrids as a novel class of intracellular PAMP molecules and describe an alternative cGAS ligand next to dsDNA. "] 
cGAS-mediated autophagy protects the liver from ischemia-reperfusion injury independently of STING. 29446653 American journal of physiology. Gastrointestinal and liver physiology ['Liver ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury occurs through induction of oxidative stress and release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), including cytosolic DNA released from dysfunctional mitochondria or from the nucleus. Cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is a cytosolic DNA sensor known to trigger stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and downstream type 1 interferon (IFN-I) pathways, which are pivotal innate immune system responses to pathogen. However, little is known about the role of cGAS/STING in liver I/R injury. We subjected C57BL/6 (WT), cGAS knockout (cGAS<sup>-/-</sup>), and STING-deficient (STING<sup>gt/gt</sup>) mice to warm liver I/R injury and that found cGAS<sup>-/-</sup> mice had significantly increased liver injury compared with WT or STING<sup>gt/gt</sup> mice, suggesting a protective effect of cGAS independent of STING. Liver I/R upregulated cGAS in vivo and also in vitro in hepatocytes subjected to anoxia/reoxygenation (A/R). We confirmed a previously published finding that hepatocytes do not express STING under normoxic conditions or after A/R. Hepatocytes and liver from cGAS<sup>-/-</sup> mice had increased cell death and reduced induction of autophagy under hypoxic conditions as well as increased apoptosis. Protection could be restored in cGAS<sup>-/-</sup> hepatocytes by overexpression of cGAS or by pretreatment of mice with autophagy inducer rapamycin. Our findings indicate a novel protective role for cGAS in the regulation of autophagy during liver I/R injury that occurs independently of STING. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Our studies are the first to document the important role of cGAS in the acute setting of sterile injury induced by I/R. Specifically, we provide evidence that cGAS protects liver from I/R injury in a STING-independent manner.'] 
Elevated IFIT3 Contributes to Abnormal Overactive cGAS-STING Signaling in Human Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Monocytes. 29806091 Arthritis & rheumatology (Hoboken, N.J.) [StringElement('Increasing evidence indicate a critical pathogenic role of cGAS-STING signaling pathway in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Interferon(IFN) inducible gene, IFIT3, is elevated in SLE. However, it is still not clear how IFIT3 contributes to SLE pathogenesis. We undertook this study to investigate the activation of cGAS-STING signaling pathway in SLE monocytes, as well as how elevated IFIT3 contributes to the overactivation of cGAS-STING signaling pathway.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'OBJECTIVE', u'Label': u'OBJECTIVE'}), StringElement('Monocytes from SLE patients or healthy controls were examined for the activity of cGAS-STING signaling pathway and expression of IFIT3. Then we analyzed the correlation between cGAS-STING signaling activity and SLE clinical features. Gain or loss of function experiments were used to determine the role of IFIT3 in cGAS-STING signaling pathway. We used Co-IP to identify the interaction between IFIT3 and other proteins.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'METHODS', u'Label': u'METHODS'}), UnicodeElement(u'cGAS-STING signaling pathway had enhanced activity in monocytes from SLE patients compared to healthy controls, indicated by higher expression of downstream IFN\u03b2. The expression of IFIT3 was significantly elevated and positively correlated with the activity of cGAS-STING signaling pathway. In vitro, we found that the expression of VACV70-induced IFN\u03b2 could be reduced by knocking down IFIT3, whilst over-expression of IFIT3 produced an opposite effect. Finally, IFIT3 was found to interact with both STING and TBK1.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'RESULTS', u'Label': u'RESULTS'}), StringElement('We propose that IFIT3 is one of the genes which contribute to the overactive cGAS-STING signaling pathway in SLE monocytes, which may serve as a therapeutic target to block the production of type I IFN and other pro-inflammatory cytokines by cGAS-STING signaling pathway. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.', attributes={u'NlmCategory': u'CONCLUSIONS', u'Label': u'CONCLUSIONS'})] 
The cGas-Sting Signaling Pathway Is Required for the Innate Immune Response Against Ectromelia Virus. 29963044 Frontiers in immunology ['Activation of the DNA-dependent innate immune pathway plays a pivotal role in the host defense against poxvirus. Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a key cytosolic DNA sensor that produces the cyclic dinucleotide cGMP-AMP (cGAMP) upon activation, which triggers stimulator of interferon genes (STING), leading to type I Interferons (IFNs) production and an antiviral response. Ectromelia virus (ECTV) has emerged as a valuable model for investigating the host-Orthopoxvirus relationship. However, the role of cGas-Sting pathway in response to ECTV is not clearly understood. Here, we showed that murine cells (L929 and RAW264.7) mount type I IFN responses to ECTV that are dependent upon cGas, Sting, TANK binding kinase 1 (Tbk1), and interferon regulatory factor 3 (Irf3) signaling. Disruption of cGas or Sting expression in mouse macrophages blocked the type I IFN production and facilitated ECTV replication. Consistently, mice deficient in cGas or Sting exhibited lower type I IFN levels and higher viral loads, and are more susceptible to mousepox. Collectively, our study indicates that the cGas-Sting pathway is critical for sensing of ECTV infection, inducing the type I IFN production, and controlling ECTV replication.'] 
Human Cytomegalovirus Tegument Protein pp65 (pUL83) Dampens Type I Interferon Production by Inactivating the DNA Sensor cGAS without Affecting STING. 29263269 Journal of virology [u"The innate immune response plays a pivotal role during human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) primary infection. Indeed, HCMV infection of primary fibroblasts rapidly triggers strong induction of type I interferons (IFN-I), accompanied by proinflammatory cytokine release. Here, we show that primary human foreskin fibroblasts (HFFs) infected with a mutant HCMV TB40/E strain unable to express UL83-encoded pp65 (v65Stop) produce significantly higher IFN-\u03b2 levels than HFFs infected with the wild-type TB40/E strain or the pp65 revertant (v65Rev), suggesting that the tegument protein pp65 may dampen IFN-\u03b2 production. To clarify the mechanisms through which pp65 inhibits IFN-\u03b2 production, we analyzed the activation of the cGAS/STING/IRF3 axis in HFFs infected with either the wild type, the revertant v65Rev, or the pp65-deficient mutant v65Stop. We found that pp65 selectively binds to cGAS and prevents its interaction with STING, thus inactivating the signaling pathway through the cGAS/STING/IRF3 axis. Consistently, addition of exogenous cGAMP to v65Rev-infected cells triggered the production of IFN-\u03b2 levels similar to those observed with v65Stop-infected cells, confirming that pp65 inactivation of IFN-\u03b2 production occurs at the cGAS level. Notably, within the first 24 h of HCMV infection, STING undergoes proteasome degradation independently of the presence or absence of pp65. Collectively, our data provide mechanistic insights into the interplay between HCMV pp65 and cGAS, leading to subsequent immune evasion by this prominent DNA virus.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Primary human foreskin fibroblasts (HFFs) produce type I IFN (IFN-I) when infected with HCMV. However, we observed significantly higher IFN-\u03b2 levels when HFFs were infected with HCMV that was unable to express UL83-encoded pp65 (v65Stop), suggesting that pp65 (pUL83) may constitute a viral evasion factor. This study demonstrates that the HCMV tegument protein pp65 inhibits IFN-\u03b2 production by binding and inactivating cGAS early during infection. In addition, this inhibitory activity specifically targets cGAS, since it can be bypassed via the addition of exogenous cGAMP, even in the presence of pp65. Notably, STING proteasome-mediated degradation was observed in both the presence and absence of pp65. Collectively, our data underscore the important role of the tegument protein pp65 as a critical molecular hub in HCMV's evasion strategy against the innate immune response."] 
